Economy of Europe - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Economy of Europe From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search The economy of Europe comprises more than 731 million people in 48 different countries. Like other continents, the wealth of Europe's states varies, although the poorest are well above the poorest states of other continents in terms of GDP and living standards. The difference in wealth across Europe can be seen roughly in former Cold War divide, with some countries breaching the divide (Greece, Portugal, Slovenia and the Czech Republic). Whilst most European states have GDP per capita higher than the world's average and are very highly developed (Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Andorra, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Switzerland), some European economies, despite their position over the world's average (except for Moldova) in the Human Development Index (Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Macedonia, Kosovo, Belarus, Ukraine) are still catching up with European leading countries. Throughout this article "Europe" and derivatives of the word are taken to include selected states whose territory is only partly in Europe – such as Turkey (depending on a definition – whole country or just Thrace), Azerbaijan (Caucasus), and the Russian Federation (its European part to Ural Mountains) – and states that are geographically in Asia, bordering Europe and culturally adherent to the continent – such as Armenia, Georgia, and Cyprus. Europe in 2010 had a nominal GDP of $19.920 trillion[1] (30.2% of the world). Europe's largest national economy is that of Germany, which ranks fourth globally in nominal GDP, and fifth in purchasing power parity (PPP) GDP;[2] followed by the United Kingdom, ranking fifth globally in nominal GDP, followed by France, ranking sixth globally in nominal GDP, followed by Italy, which ranks seventh globally in nominal GDP, followed by Russia ranking tenth globally in nominal GDP then by Spain ranking thirteenth globally in nominal GDP.[3] These 6 countries all rank in the world's top 15, therefore European economies account for half of the 10 wealthiest ones. The end of World War II brought European countries closer together, culminating in the formation of the European Union (EU) and in 1999, the introduction of a unified currency – the euro. The EU as a whole is the wealthiest and largest economy in the world, topping the US by more than 2,000 billion at a time of great economic slowdown– see List of countries by GDP. In 2009 Europe remained the world's wealthiest region. Its $33 trillion in assets under management represented more than one-third of the world's wealth. Unlike North America ($29,3 trillion) it was one of few regions where wealth surpassed its precrisis year-end peak.[4] Of the top 500 largest corporations measured by revenue (Fortune Global 500 in 2010), 184 have their headquarters in Europe. 161 are located in the EU, 15 in Switzerland, 6 in Russia, 1 in Turkey, 1 in Norway.[5] As noted by the Spanish sociologist Manuel Castells the average standard of living in Western Europe is very high. "The bulk of the population in Western Europe still enjoys the highest living standards in the world, and in the world's history."[6] Contents 1 Economic development 1.1 Pre-1945: Industrial growth 1.2 1945–1990: The Cold War era 1.3 Rise of the European Union 1.4 2004–2007: EU expansion 1.5 2008-present: Eurozone expansion and European debt crisis 2 Regional variation 2.1 Cities by GDP 2.2 European Union 2.3 European Free Trade Association 2.4 European Economic Area 2.5 Commonwealth of Independent States 2.6 Central European Free Trade Agreement 3 Currency and central banks 4 Stock exchanges 5 Economic sectors 5.1 Agriculture and fishing 5.2 Manufacturing 5.3 Investing and banking 5.4 Transport 5.4.1 Rail transport 5.4.2 Air transport 6 Global trade relations 7 See also 8 Notes 9 References 10 External links Economic development[edit] Main article: Economic history of Europe Pre-1945: Industrial growth[edit] Prior to World War II, Europe's major financial and industrial states were the United Kingdom, France and Germany. The Industrial Revolution, which began in Britain, had spread rapidly across Europe, and before long the entire continent was at a high level of industry. World War I had briefly led to the industries of some European states stalling, but in the run-up to World War II Europe had recovered well, and was competing with the ever increasing economic might of the United States of America. However, World War II caused the destruction of most of Europe's industrial centres, and much of the continent's infrastructure was laid to waste. 1945–1990: The Cold War era[edit] Following World War II, European Government was in tatters. Many non-Socialist European governments moved to link their economies, laying the foundation for what would become the European Union. This meant a huge increase in shared infrastructure and cross-border trade. Whilst these European states rapidly improved their economies, by the 1980s, the economy of the COMECON was struggling, mainly due to the massive cost of the Cold War. The GDP and the living standards of Central and Eastern European states were lower than in other parts of Europe. Even free-market Greece, situated in South-Eastern Europe, struggled due to geographical isolation from non-socialist part of Europe.[citation needed] The European Community grew from 6 original members following World War II, to 12 in this period. Average living standards in Europe rose significantly during the post-war period, as characterised by these findings:[7] Per capita private consumption (PPSs) in 1980 Luxembourg: 5495 France: 5395 Germany, Federal Republic: 5319 Belgium: 5143 Denmark: 4802 Netherlands: 4792 United Kingdom: 4343 Italy: 4288 Ireland: 3029 Per capita personal disposable income (PPSs) in 1980 Belgium: 6202 France: 6044 Germany, Federal Republic: 5661 Netherlands: 5490 Italy: 5378 Denmark: 4878 United Kingdom: 4698 Rise of the European Union[edit] When the 'Eastern Bloc' dissolved around 1991, these states struggled to adapt to free-market systems. There was, however, a huge variation in degrees of success, with Central European states such as the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia and Poland adapting reasonably quickly, whilst states that used to form the USSR such as Russia, Belarus and Ukraine struggled to reform their crumbling infrastructures. Many developed European countries were quick to develop economic ties with fellow European states, where democracy was reintroduced. After the Revolutions of 1989, states in Central Europe and the Baltic states dealt with change, former Yugoslavian republics descended into war and Russia, Ukraine and Belarus are still struggling with their old systems. Europe's largest economy, Germany, struggled upon unification in 1991 with former communist German Democratic Republic, or East Germany, influenced by the Soviet Union. GDR, had much of its industrial infrastructure removed during the Cold War, and for many years unified Germany struggled to build infrastructure in the former East Germany up to the level of former West Germany. Peace did not come to Yugoslavia for a decade, and by 2003, there were still many NATO and EU peacekeeping troops present in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, and Kosovo[a] . War severely hampered economic growth, with only Slovenia making any real progress in the 1990s. European economy was affected by September 11 Attacks in United States in 2001, Germany, Switzerland, France, and United Kingdom was hardest. But, in 2002/2003, the Economy began to recover from attacks in US. The economy of Europe was by this time dominated by the EU, a huge economic and political organization with then 15 of Europe's states as full members. EU membership was seen as something to aspire to, and the EU gave significant support and aid to those Central and Eastern European states willing to work towards achieving economies that met the entry criteria. During this time, 12 of the 15 members of the EU became part of the Eurozone, a currency union launched in 1999, whereby each member uses a shared currency, the Euro, which replaced their former national currencies. Three states chose to remain outside the Eurozone and continue with their own currencies, namely Denmark, Sweden and the United Kingdom. 2004–2007: EU expansion[edit] In early 2004, 10 mostly former communist states joined the EU in its biggest ever expansion, enlarging the union to 25 members, with another eight making associated trade agreements. The acceding countries are bound to join the Eurozone and adopt the common currency Euro in the future. The process includes the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, of which some of these countries are already part. Most European economies are in very good shape, and the continental economy reflects this. Conflict and unrest in some of the former Yugoslavia states and in the Caucasus states are hampering economic growth in those states, however. In response to the massive EU growth, in 2005 the Russian-dominated Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) created a rival trade bloc to the EU, open to any previous USSR state, (including both the European and Asian states). 12 of the 15 signed up, with the three Baltic states deciding to align themselves with the EU. Despite this, the three Caucasus states[citation needed] have said in the past they would one day consider applying for EU membership, particularly Georgia. This is also true of Ukraine since the Orange Revolution. 2008-present: Eurozone expansion and European debt crisis[edit] GDP (PPP) per capita in Europe Slovenia became the first formerly communist nation to adopt the EU currency, the euro, in 2007, followed by Malta and Cyprus in 2008, Slovakia in 2009, Estonia in 2011 and Latvia in 2014 as the 18th member state to enter the eurozone, despite initially significant opposition among the citizens in the nation to continue the major currency transition. On the 23rd of July 2014, the Council of the European Union confirmed Lithuania to be the latest EU member to join the eurozone by the start of 2015. Recently, Croatia became the 28th member of the European Union, which had entered on the 1st day of July 2013. In 2008, the Global Financial Crisis, triggered by the housing bubble in the United States, caused a significant decline in the GDP of the majority of the European economies, which was a precedent to a far more broader and problematic Eurozone debt crisis, which threatened the collapse of economies in the south, particularly Italy, recently affected by the ongoing political crisis, and Portugal and Spain. Ireland and Greece are also hit hard, with Ireland exiting the crisis in mid-2013. Meanwhile, increased bailouts of the International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank alleviated somehow the situation in the debt-stricken nations, with Central and East European economies led by Germany escaping the worst of the 2010s debt crisis. By the mid 2010s, 2014–2015, Ireland was recovering at a steady pace having graduated from the bail out programme successfully. The Eurozone as a whole had become more stable, however problems in Greece and slow recovery in Italy and in Iberia (Spain and Portugal) continue in keeping growth in the Euro area to a minimum. Germany continues to lead Europe in stability and growth, while both the UK and Ireland are seeing strong growth of 3–4%. Unemployment in Ireland reducing at the fastest levels in Europe, expected to reach 8% by 2016, down from double that in 2011. Growth outlook in general remains opimistic for Europe in the future. With positive growth expected across the Euro area. All though uncertainty still surrounds Greece and debt payments in the Greek state, at present things appear stable. Regional variation[edit] European countries with a long history of trade, a free market system, and a high level of development in the previous century are generally in the north and west of the continent. They tend to be wealthier and more stable than countries congregated in European east and south, even though the gap is converging, especially in Central and Eastern Europe, due to higher growth rates. The poorest states are those that just emerged from communism, fascist dictatorships and civil wars, namely those of the former Soviet Union and Yugoslavia, excluding Slovenia. Former Western Bloc itself presents some living standards and development differences, with the greatest contrast seen between Scandinavia (Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland) and Spain, Portugal, Italy and Greece. Main article: List of sovereign states in Europe by GNI (nominal) per capita Below is a map of European countries by gross national income per capita.[8] High income in blue ($12,616 or more, as defined by the World Bank), upper middle income in green ($4,086 – $12,615) and lower middle income ($1,036 – $4,085) in yellow. 4,090 41130 48,160 6,050 6,530 44,990 4,650 6,870 13,290 26,000 18,130 59,770 15,830 46,940 41,750 44,010 3,280 21,956 12,390 38,710 38,970 33,840 9,730 3,640 14,180 113210 14,340 76,960 4,690 19,760 2,070 203900 6,940 48,250 98,860 12,670 20,580 8,420 12,700 50,670 5,280 17,170 22,710 30,110 56,210 82,730 10,830 3,500 38,250 Faroe Islands (Dk.) n/d 3,720 Adriatic Sea Arctic Ocean Barents Sea Bay of Biscay Black Sea Azov Sea Caspian Sea Celtic Sea Greenland Sea Baffin Bay Gulf of Cadiz Ligurian Sea Mediterranean Sea North Atlantic Ocean North Sea Norwegian Sea Strait of Gibraltar Cities by GDP[edit] See also: List of metropolitan areas in the European Union by GDP Rank City State GDP in $ID B Population M (LUZ) GDP per capita $ID K Eurozone 1 London  United Kingdom $732 11.9 $61.5 N 2 Paris  France $669 11.5 $62.4 Y 3 Moscow  Russia $520 11.5 $45.2 N 4 Madrid  Spain $230 5.80 $39.7 Y 5 Barcelona  Spain $177 4.97 $35.6 Y 6 Rome  Italy $144 3.46 $41.6 Y 7 Milan  Italy $136 3.08 $44.2 Y 8 Vienna  Austria $122 2.18 $56.0 Y 9 Lisbon  Portugal $98 2.44 $40.2 Y 10 Athens  Greece $96 4.01 $23.9 Y 11 Berlin  Germany $95 4.97 $19.1 Y European Union[edit] Main article: Economy of the European Union The European Union has the largest economy in the world. Trade within the Union accounts for more than one-third of the world total. The European Union or EU is a supranational union of 28 European states, the most recent acceding member being Croatia, which became full member on 1 July 2013. It has many functions, the most important being the establishment and maintenance of a common single market, consisting of a customs union, a single currency (adopted by 18 of the 28 member states[9]), a Common Agricultural Policy and a Common Fisheries Policy. The European Union also undertakes various initiatives to co-ordinate activities of the member states. The union has evolved over time from a primarily economic union to an increasingly political one. This trend is highlighted by the increasing number of policy areas that fall within EU competence: political power has tended to shift upwards from the Member States to the EU. European Free Trade Association[edit] The European Free Trade Association (EFTA) was established on 3 May 1960 as an alternative for European states that did not wish to join the European Union, creating a trade bloc with fewer central powers. The EFTA member states as of 1992 were Austria, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland. In 2014 only four ountries, Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, remained members of EFTA, as the other members have gradually left to join the EU. European Economic Area[edit] The European Economic Area (EEA) came into being on 1 January 1994 following an agreement between the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and the European Union (EU). It was designed to enable EFTA countries to participate in the European Single Market without having to join the EU. In a referendum, Switzerland (ever keen on neutrality) chose not to participate in the EEA (although it is linked to the European Union by bilateral agreements similar in content to the EEA agreement), so the current members are the EU states plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. A Joint Committee consisting of the non EU members plus the European Commission (representing the EU) has the function of extending relevant EU Law to the non EU members. Commonwealth of Independent States[edit] The Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) is a confederation consisting of 9 of the 15 states of the former Soviet Union, (the exceptions being the three Baltic states, Georgia, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine (Turkmenistan and Ukraine are participating states in the CIS)). Although the CIS has few supranational powers, it is more than a purely symbolic organization and possesses co-ordinating powers in the realm of trade, finance, lawmaking and security. The most significant issue for the CIS is the establishment of a full-fledged free trade zone / economic union between the member states, to be launched in 2005. It has also promoted co-operation on democratization and cross-border crime prevention. Central European Free Trade Agreement[edit] The Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA) is a trade bloc of: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Serbia and the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) on behalf of Kosovo. Currency and central banks[edit] The most common currency within Europe is the euro, the currency of the European Union. To join, each new EU member must meet certain criteria, when these are met their own currencies will be replaced by the euro. Becoming a member of the EU involves a pledge to work towards Eurozone membership, (except in the cases of the United Kingdom and Denmark who have opt-outs). Currently, 17 of the 28 EU member states use the euro. Each EU member's central bank is part of the European System of Central Banks, and in addition, those that use the euro are part of the European Union's central bank, the European Central Bank. There are some non-EU members who have elected to use the euro as their national currency, either with or without specific agreements with the EU to do so, (those with agreements with the EU may mint their own euro coins). The French overseas territories and departments of Mayotte and Réunion in the Indian Ocean, Guadeloupe and Martinique in the Caribbean and French Guiana in South America all use the euro, among many other islands in the Pacific, Caribbean and indeed around the globe that are ruled directly by European countries. Some countries while maintaining their own national currency have pegged its value to the euro. In some of these countries, there is a fixed exchange rate between the national currency and the euro and in this case the currency is actually a submultiple of the euro. In other countries, the national currency's value fluctuates within a band (generally 15%) around a set rate. Currencies pegged to the euro include the currencies of Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Cape Verde. Denmark has a foreign exchange band tied to the euro. The CIS is also planning to introduce a single currency among its members. Below is a list of the central banks and currencies of Europe, with exchange rates between each currency and both the euro and US dollars as of 1 May 2010. Country Currency Value in Euro Value in USD Central Bank  Albania Lek 0.007 0.009 Bank of Albania  Andorra Euro — 1.33 (none de jure)/ECB de facto  Armenia Dram 0.002 0.003 Central Bank of Armenia  Austria Euro — 1.33 National Bank of Austria/ECB  Azerbaijan Manat 0.94 1.25 Central Bank of Azerbaijan  Belarus Belarusian ruble 0.0003 0.0003 National Bank of the Republic of Belarus  Belgium Euro — 1.33 National Bank of Belgium/ECB  Bosnia and Herzegovina Konvertibilna marka 0.51 0.68 Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina  Bulgaria Lev 0.51 0.68 Bulgarian National Bank  Croatia Kuna 0.14 0.18 Croatian National Bank  Cyprus Euro — 1.33 Central Bank of Cyprus/ECB  Czech Republic Koruna 0.04 0.05 Czech National Bank  Denmark Danish krone 0.1 0.2 Danmarks Nationalbank  Estonia Euro — 1.33 Bank of Estonia/ECB  Finland Euro — 1.33 Bank of Finland/ECB  France Euro — 1.33 Banque de France/ECB  Georgia Lari 0.4 0.5 National Bank of Georgia  Germany Euro — 1.33 Deutsche Bundesbank/ECB  Greece Euro — 1.33 Bank of Greece/ECB  Hungary Forint 0.004 0.005 Hungarian National Bank  Iceland Króna 0.01 0.02 Central Bank of Iceland  Ireland Euro — 1.33 Central Bank of Ireland/ECB  Italy Euro — 1.33 Banca d'Italia/ECB  Latvia Euro — 1.33 National Bank of Latvia/ECB  Liechtenstein Swiss franc 0.7 0.9 (none de jure)/Swiss National Bank de facto  Lithuania Euro — 1.33 Bank of Lithuania  Luxembourg Euro — 1.33 Central Bank of Luxembourg/ECB  Macedonia Denar 0.02 0.02 National Bank of the Republic of Macedonia  Malta Euro — 1.33 Central Bank of Malta/ECB  Moldova Moldovan leu 0.06 0.08 National Bank of Moldova  Monaco Euro — 1.33 (none de jure)/ECB de facto  Montenegro Euro — 1.33 Central Bank of Montenegro de jure/ECB de facto  Netherlands Euro — 1.33 De Nederlandsche Bank/ECB  Norway Norwegian krone 0.1 0.2 Norges Bank  Poland Z?oty 0.26 0.35 National Bank of Poland  Portugal Euro — 1.33 Banco de Portugal/ECB  Romania Romanian leu 0.29 0.35 National Bank of Romania  Russia Russian ruble 0.03 0.03 Central Bank of the Russian Federation  San Marino Euro — 1.33 Central Bank of San Marino de jure/ECB de facto  Serbia Dinar 0.01 0.02 National Bank of Serbia  Slovakia Euro — 1.33 National Bank of Slovakia/ECB  Slovenia Euro — 1.33 Bank of Slovenia/ECB  Spain Euro — 1.33 Bank of Spain/ECB  Sweden Swedish krona 0.1 0.2 Sveriges Riksbank   Switzerland Swiss franc 0.7 0.9 Swiss National Bank  Turkey Lira 0.5 0.7 Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey  Ukraine Hryvnia 0.2 0.2 National Bank of Ukraine  United Kingdom Pound sterling 1.37 1.55 Bank of England   Vatican City Euro — 1.33 (none de jure)/ ECB de facto Table as of 21 November 2010. Stock exchanges[edit] As of May 1, 2010, five (5) European cities are ranking among the 10 largest financial centers in the world: London (1st), Paris (5th), Frankfurt (6th), Zurich (7th) and Geneva (8th). 15 out of the 20 nations with the highest nominal GDP per capita are in Europe (2005) There are many stock exchanges within Europe. Pan-European: Euronext OMX Albania: Tirana Stock Exchange (TSE) Austria: Wiener Börse Belgium: Euronext Brussels Bosnia and Herzegovina Sarajevo Stock Exchange Banja Luka Stock Exchange Bulgaria: Bulgarian Stock Exchange Croatia: Zagreb Stock Exchange Cyprus: Cyprus Stock Exchange (CSE) Czech Republic: Prague Stock Exchange (PSE) Denmark: Copenhagen Stock Exchange (KFX) (part of OMX) Estonia: Tallinn Stock Exchange (part of OMX) Faroe Islands: Faroese Securities Market, in cooperation with Iceland Stock Exchange Finland: Helsinki Stock Exchange (part of OMX) France: Euronext Paris ("La Bourse de Paris") (CAC40) Georgia Georgian Stock Exchange (GSE) Germany: Frankfurt Stock Exchange (part of Deutsche Börse) (DAX) Greece: Athens Stock Exchange (General) Hungary: Budapest Stock Exchange (BSE) Iceland: Iceland Stock Exchange (Kauphöll Íslands) Ireland: Irish Stock Exchange (ISEQ) Italy: Borsa Italiana (FTSE MIB) Latvia: Riga Stock Exchange (part of OMX) Lithuania: Vilnius Stock Exchange (part of OMX) Luxembourg: Luxembourg Stock Exchange Macedonia: Macedonia Stock Exchange Malta: Malta Stock Exchange Montenegro Montenegro Stock Exchange Netherlands: Euronext Amsterdam Norway: Oslo Stock Exchange Poland: Warsaw Stock Exchange (WSE) Portugal: Euronext Lisbon (PSI-20) Romania: Bucharest Stock Exchange (BSE) Sibiu Stock Exchange (SIBEX) Russia: Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) RTS Stock Exchange Serbia: Belgrade Stock Exchange (BELEX) Slovakia: Bratislava Stock Exchange (BSSE) Slovenia: Ljubljana Stock Exchange (LJSE) Spain: Madrid Stock Exchange (IBEX 35) Sweden: Nordic Growth Market Stockholm Stock Exchange (part of OMX) Switzerland: SWX Swiss Exchange Turkey: Istanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) Ukraine: PFTS Ukraine Stock Exchange Ukrainian Stock Exchange United Kingdom: Alternative Investment Market (AIM) London Stock Exchange (LSE) (FTSE) Economic sectors[edit] Agriculture and fishing[edit] Europe's agricultural sector is in general highly developed. The process of improving Central Europe's agriculture is ongoing and is helped by the accession of Central European states to the EU. The agricultural sector in Europe is helped by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), which provides farmers with a minimal price for their products and subsidizes their exports, which increases competitiveness for their products. This policy is highly controversial as it hampers free trade worldwide (protectionism sparks protectionism from other countries and trade blocs: the concept of trade wars) and is violating the concept of fair trade. This means because of the protectionist nature of the CAP, agricultural products from developing countries are rendered incompetitive in both Europe (an important export market for developing countries) and on their home markets (as European agricultural products are dumped on developing countries' markets with help from European agricultural subsidies). This controversy surrounds every system of agricultural subsidies (the United States' policy of subsidizing farmers is also controversial). The CAP is also controversial because 40% of the EU's budget is spent on it, and because of the overproduction caused by it. The Common Fisheries Policy is surrounded by an extensive system of rules (mainly consisting of quotas) to protect the environment from overfishing. Despite these rules, the cod is becoming increasingly rare in the North Sea resulting in drastic shortages in countries such as Canada and the United Kingdom. Strict fishing rules are the main reason for Norway and Iceland to stay out of the European Union (and out of the Common Fisheries Policy). Price guarantees and subsidizations of fishermen are implemented in the same way as agricultural subsidies are. Bluefin tuna is also a problem. Global stocks of the species are overfished with extinction in the wild a possibility in the near future. This also has the negative effect of threatening their traditional, natural predators. Manufacturing[edit] Europe has a thriving manufacturing sector, with a large part of the world's industrial production taking place in Europe. Most of the continent's industries are concentrated in the 'Blue Banana' (covering Southern England, the Benelux, western Germany, eastern France, Switzerland, and northern Italy). However, because of the higher wage level and hence production costs, Europe is suffering from deindustrialization and offshoring in the labour-intensive manufacturing sectors. This means that manufacturing has become less important and that jobs are moved to regions with cheaper labour costs (mainly China and Central and Eastern Europe). Central Europe (Berlin, Saxony, the Czech Republic and Little Poland) was largely industrialised by 1850 [10] but Eastern Europe (European Russia) begun industrialisation between 1890–1900 and intensified it during the communist regime (as USSR) but it suffered from contraction in the 1990s when the inefficient heavy industry based manufacturing sector crippled after the collapse of communism and the introduction of the market economy. In the 21st century the manufacturing sector in Central and Eastern Europe picked up because of the accession of ten formerly Communist European states to the EU and resulting accession to the European Common Market. This caused firms within the European Union to move jobs from their manufacturing sector to Central European countries such as Poland (see above), which sparked both Central and Eastern European industrial growth and employment. According to Fortune Global 500, 195 of the top 500 companies are headquartered in Europe.[11] The main products in European industry are bicycles, rail, machinery, marine, aerospace equipment, food, chemical and pharmaceutical goods, software and electronics. Investing and banking[edit] Europe has a well-developed financial sector. Many European cities are financial centres with the City of London being the largest. The European financial sector is helped by the introduction of the euro as common currency. This has made it easier for European households and firms to invest in companies and deposit money on banks in other European countries. Exchange rate fluctuations are now non-existent in the Eurozone. The financial sector in Central and Eastern Europe is helped by economic growth in the region, European Regional Development Fund and the commitment of Central and Eastern European governments to achieve high standards. European banks are amongst the largest and most profitable in the world (Barclays, BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole, Societe Generale, Royal Bank of Scotland, Deutsche Bank, UBS, National Trust, HSBC, Grupo Santander, BBVA, HBOS, Unicredit).[12] Transport[edit] Main article: Transport in Europe Transport in Europe provides for the movement needs of over 700 million people[13] and associated freight. The political geography of Europe divides the continent into over 50 sovereign states and territories. This fragmentation, along with increased movement of people since the industrial revolution, has led to a high level of cooperation between European countries in developing and maintaining transport networks. Supranational and intergovernmental organisations such as the European Union (EU), Council of Europe and the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe have led to the development of international standards and agreements that allow people and freight to cross the borders of Europe, largely with unique levels of freedom and ease. Rail transport[edit] Main article: Rail transport in Europe European rail subsidies in euros per passenger-km for 2008[14] Rail networks in Western and Central Europe are often well maintained and well developed, whilst Eastern, Northern and Southern Europe often have less coverage and/or infrastructure problems. Electrified railway networks operate at a plethora of different voltages AC and DC varying from 750 to 25,000 volts, and signalling systems vary from country to country, hindering cross-border traffic. EU rail subsidies amounted to €73 billion in 2005.[15] Air transport[edit] Despite an extensive road and rail network, most long distance travel within Europe is by air. A large tourism industry also attracts many visitors to Europe, most of whom arrive into one of Europe's many large international airports. Frankfurt, London is the busiest airport in the world by number of international passengers (third busiest overall). The advent of low cost carriers in recent years has led to a large increase in air travel within Europe. Air transportation is now often the cheapest way of travelling between cities. This increase in air travel has led to problems of airspace overcrowding and environmental concerns. The Single European Sky is one initiative aimed at solving these problems.[16] Global trade relations[edit] The bulk of the EU's external trade is done with China, Mercosur and the United States,[17] Japan, Russia and non-member European states. EU members are represented by a single official at the WTO. The EU is involved in a few minor trade disputes. It had a long running dispute with the USA of allegedly unfair subsidies the US government gives to several companies, such as Boeing. The EU has a long running ban prohibiting arms trade with the Chinese. The EU issued a brief accusing Microsoft of predatory and monopolistic practices. See also[edit] Business and economics portal Europe portal Free trade areas in Europe Statistics: Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe statistics International organisations in Europe List of European countries by budget revenues List of European countries by budget revenues per capita List of European countries by GDP (nominal) List of European countries by GDP (PPP) List of European countries by GDP (nominal) per capita List of European countries by GDP (PPP) per capita List of European countries by GNI (nominal) per capita List of European countries by GNI (PPP) per capita List of sovereign states in Europe by minimum wage General: List of largest European companies by revenue Regions of Europe Notes[edit] a. ^ Kosovo is the subject of a territorial dispute between the Republic of Kosovo and the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Kosovo unilaterally declared independence on 17 February 2008, but Serbia continues to claim it as part of its own sovereign territory. The two governments began to normalise relations in 2013, as part of the Brussels Agreement. Kosovo has been recognised as an independent state by 109 out of 193 United Nations member states. References[edit] ^ [1]. Last accessed 3 December 2010. ^ "List of countries by GDP (Purchasing Power Parity) – CIA World Factbook". Cia.gov. Retrieved 26 April 2011.  ^ "List of countries by GDP (Official Exchange Rate) – CIA World Factbook". Cia.gov. Retrieved 26 April 2011.  ^ "Global Wealth Stages a Strong Comeback". Pr-inside.com. Retrieved 26 April 2011.  ^ "Global 500 2010: Countries – Australia". Fortune. Retrieved 8 July 2010.  Number of companies data taken from the "Pick a country" box. ^ "End of Millennium". google.co.uk.  ^ Responses to poverty: lessons from Europe by Robert Walker, Roger Lawson, and Peter Townsend ^ GNI (nominal) per capita 2012, World Development Indicators database [2], World Bank, revised 12 Aug 2013, Atlas method ^ "EUROPA – The euro". europa.eu.  ^ http://mbbnet.umn.edu/scmap/industrymap.html ^ "PDF-Human Rights Policies and Management Practices: Results from questionnaire surveys of Governments and Fortune Global 500 firms" (PDF). Retrieved 6 March 2008.  ^ "Bank List – Top Banks in the World". Bankersalmanac.com. 16 February 2011. Retrieved 26 April 2011.  ^ "World Population Prospects: The 2008 Revision". United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs. 11 March 2009. Archived from the original on 12 October 2009. Retrieved 18 February 2010.  ^ "European rail study" (PDF). pp. 6, 44, 45. 2008 data is not provided for Italy, so 2007 data is used instead  ^ "EU Technical Report 2007".  ^ "The Single European Sky". European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation. 13 January 2009. Retrieved 18 February 2010.  ^ As regards the EU-China trade relations, see Paolo Farah (2006) Five Years of China's WTO Membership. EU and US Perspectives on China's Compliance with Transparency Commitments and the Transitional Review Mechanism, Legal Issues of Economic Integration, Kluwer Law International, Volume 33, Number 3, pp. 263–304. External links[edit] Media related to Economy of Europe at Wikimedia Commons v t e Economy of Europe Sovereign states Albania Andorra Armenia Austria Azerbaijan Belarus Belgium Bosnia and Herzegovina Bulgaria Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Georgia Germany Greece Hungary Iceland Ireland Italy Kazakhstan Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macedonia Malta Moldova Monaco Montenegro Netherlands Norway Poland Portugal Romania Russia San Marino Serbia Slovakia Slovenia Spain Sweden Switzerland Turkey Ukraine United Kingdom Vatican City States with limited recognition Abkhazia Kosovo Nagorno-Karabakh Northern Cyprus South Ossetia Transnistria Dependencies and other territories Åland Faroe Islands Gibraltar Guernsey Isle of Man Jersey Svalbard Other entities European Union v t e Economy of North America Sovereign states Antigua and Barbuda Bahamas Barbados Belize Canada Costa Rica Cuba Dominica Dominican Republic El Salvador Grenada Guatemala Haiti Honduras Jamaica Mexico Nicaragua Panama Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Trinidad and Tobago United States Dependencies and other territories Anguilla Aruba Bermuda Bonaire British Virgin Islands Cayman Islands Curaçao Greenland Guadeloupe Martinique Montserrat Puerto Rico Saint Barthélemy Saint Martin Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saba Sint Eustatius Sint Maarten Turks and Caicos Islands United States Virgin Islands v t e Economy of South America Sovereign states Argentina Bolivia Brazil Chile Colombia Ecuador Guyana Paraguay Peru Suriname Uruguay Venezuela Dependencies and other territories Falkland Islands French Guiana South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands v t e Economy of Asia Sovereign states Afghanistan Armenia Azerbaijan Bahrain Bangladesh Bhutan Brunei Cambodia China Cyprus East Timor (Timor-Leste) Egypt Georgia India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Kazakhstan North Korea South Korea Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Laos Lebanon Malaysia Maldives Mongolia Myanmar Nepal Oman Pakistan Philippines Qatar Russia Saudi Arabia Singapore Sri Lanka Syria Tajikistan Thailand Turkey Turkmenistan United Arab Emirates Uzbekistan Vietnam Yemen States with limited recognition Abkhazia Nagorno-Karabakh Northern Cyprus Palestine South Ossetia Taiwan Dependencies and other territories British Indian Ocean Territory Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Hong Kong Macau v t e Europe articles History Chronology Prehistory Classical antiquity Late Antiquity Middle Ages Early modernity Pax Europaea Crisis situations and protests since 2000 By topic Military Sovereignty predecessor states Geography Areas and populations Largest metropolitan areas Cities Extreme points Geology Islands Lakes Mountains Rivers Sovereign states and dependent territories by population Villages Politics Eurosphere International organisations Integration Law Politics Post-Soviet Europe Transatlantic relations Intergovernmental Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) Council of Europe (CoE) Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO) GUAM Organization North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) statistics European Union Economy relations free trade agreements Education European Economic Area (EEA) European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) European Union Customs Union (EUCU) Eurozone Foreign relations Members enlargement Politics Schengen Area Statistics Visa policy Economy History Financial (and social) rankings Free trade areas Energy Telecommunications Transport Intergovernmental Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA) Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia (CUBKR) Eurasian Economic Community (EAEC) European Free Trade Association (EFTA) Sovereign states by Average wage Budget revenues per capita Corruption index GDP (nominal) per capita GDP (PPP) per capita GNI (nominal) per capita GNI (PPP) per capita HDI Internet users (%) Minimum wage Press Freedom Index Unemployment rate (%) Health expense per capita Military spending (%) Childhood population (%) Urban population (%) Life expectancy Electricity use per capita Society Etiquette Social (and financial) rankings Languages endangered Universities Bologna Process Erasmus Culture Art painting sculpture Architecture Capital of Culture Cinema film festivals Classical music Cuisine Dance Literature Philosophy Religion Christianity Islam Judaism Sport Symbols Demographics Ageing Ethnic groups genetic history Immigration Life expectancy Retirement Outline Index Category Portal Maps Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Economy_of_Europe&oldid=738735215" Categories: Economy of Europe Economies by continent Hidden categories: All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2010 Articles with unsourced statements from April 2011 Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata Use dmy dates from April 2011 Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages ??????? ????? ????? Français Italiano ??????? ?????????? Português Shqip Sloven?ina Svenska Tagalog Türkçe Ti?ng Vi?t ?? Edit links This page was last modified on 10 September 2016, at 19:09. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia De