I am travelling to Thailand from India. Which Currency should I carry with me. US Dollars or Thai Baht or Indian Rupee? - Quora Quora Sign In Thailand Indian Rupee (INR) Currencies Economics of Everyday Life International Travel Money India Personal Question I am travelling to Thailand from India. Which Currency should I carry with me. US Dollars or Thai Baht or Indian Rupee? 17 Answers Vivek Verma, Amateur wanderer Written Nov 13, 2015 Here are some numbers as of 14 November 2015, just to get an idea of what conversion rates are like. 1 INR = 0.54 THB 1 THB = 1.85 INR 1 USD = 35.92 Baht Getting THB in Bangalore was at a rate of 1.9. (2.7% loss) Getting USD in Bangalore was at loss of about 1.8-2% Converting USD to THB on airport in Bangkok is at a loss of about 1.5% The rate for INR at Bangkok airport was about .35 ( 35% loss!!). So the absolute worst thing that you could do is to convert INR to THB on the airport. You need to pay 1000 Baht at the airport for Visa on Arrival, and you would need some extra money to pay for bus/taxi, sim card etc. You should carry this minimum amount with you either as THB or USD. Take care that if you carry a 100 dollar bill, you'll need to convert all of it and you won't get any change back. Also, I couldn't see any ATM around the visa counter, so I'll advice you to carry THB/USD otherwise you'll be fucked by INR conversion rates. Once you get inside, the story is a little different though. You can go to Super Rich Thailand and get INR converted at extremely good rates. It was .53 for 500 rupee notes (1.8% loss). But for 1000 rupee notes the rate was .51 (5.5% loss), which sucks because I didn't know this. You owe me one for telling you this. You can carry international prepaid cards. Those will have around 2.5-3% loss when putting in money and a fee for taking money out. I could get a rate of .515 for INR in Phuket, which I guess would be almost equal to converting INR to USD and then USD to THB. Summarising: I would carry some amount as THB or as USD (if I can get it cheap, like in Delhi). The rest I would carry as INR and convert once I get into Bangkok. 41k Views · View Upvotes · Not for Reproduction Share More Answers Below. Related Questions Is it mandatory to have 10,000 Thai baht when entering Thailand for a visit, or can I carry the amount in my ATM card and use it when I need it? 8,767 Views How much Thai Baht should I carry for a 6 night visit to Thailand? 753 Views What is the best way to carry Thailand Baht if I am travelling Bangkok from India? 1,801 Views Considering current dollar and thai baht exchange rates, what would be beneficial- carrying dollars or baht for a vacation from india to thailand? 751 Views I am in India now and I have some Thai baht from my last trip in Thailand. Which is the best place to change Thai baht in India? 1,059 Views Where do I get sim cards for Thailand if I am planning to travel from Bangalore, India? 467 Views What happened to the Thai Baht (THB) currency on 10 August 2007? 781 Views Why is the Thai baht stronger than the Indian rupee, even when India has a large market with much larger daily business than their Thai counterparts? 3,634 Views Which currency is ideal to carry to Thailand from India - Bhatt or US Dollar or INR? 716 Views For traveling from India to Malaysia and Thailand, should I buy travel insurance? 4,969 Views Is it better to buy Thai Bahts in India if you are traveling to Thailand? 882 Views I am travelling to Malaysia and Singapore in August, 2015 with friends from India. I heard options like travel currency card, carrying cash after converting, etc. What is the best way of currency exchange applicable for both countries? 2,951 Views What are some currency conversion options while travelling to Indonesia and Thailand from India? 345 Views I am travelling to Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam from the UK. Is it worth taking US dollars? 3,257 Views My sister is travelling to Singapore (from India) on a project. We have never travelled abroad and I just have a few questions. Can we carry Indian currency on the flight to S'pore and if yes, is there a limit and how much? Once there, how can we change it to S'pore dollar? 530 Views Other Answers Mayur Shetty Written Apr 6 I asked this question to someone pretty senior in the credit card business.  He said that for large payments he would always use his credit or debit card. Sure there is 3.5% mark-up when you get billed but the mark-up is on the wholesale rate. If you are buying small lots of currency from your next door bank branch you are probably paying that much. When it comes to currency notes,  I have found that the best deals in currency are from those exchange companies whose main business is currency.  Banks, unless you are a prime customers, fleece you. You can use your debit card to withdraw cash at other ATMs. But every transaction will result in a interchange fee of around Rs 200 in addition. Carrying rupees is an option. RBI rules allows an individual to carry up to Rs 25,000 out of the country. https://www.rbi.org.in/scripts/N... 8.9k Views · Not for Reproduction Share Ishank Arora Written Jan 8, 2015 Originally Answered: I am planning to go to Bangkok. Is it cheaper to take Thai bhat from India or convert it into US dollars and then convert it into Thai bhat in Thailand? There is a thumb rule which you can follow here: The more number of times you go for currency conversions, the more conversion charges (1.8-3%) you pay every-time. Also, both Thai Baht and INR for instance are weak currencies, so the forward rates are always fluctuating and have a significant impact on the 'return' of the amount converted. My advise would be categorized as per the 2 conditions: 1. If you are carrying amount lesser than 5,000$, then, it's advisable to convert INR to THB straight away. Most of the traders will have a 0.10Rs/THB fluctuation versus the conversion charges you can find on The World's Favorite Currency and Foreign Exchange Site For instance, if the present rates are 1THB = 1.89INR; then, don't settle for a conversion rate any lesser than 1.75INR per THB. 2. However, if you are carrying money greater than 5,000$, then, it makes more sense to convert the weak currencies to hard currencies (EUR, $) and use that during the travel time. Also, on one hand you will lose some money during converting INR to $, but, on the other hand selling $ back to THB could counter some of your earlier losses, as you have a leverage of a significant amount in hand. 16.9k Views · View Upvotes · Not for Reproduction Share Varad Joshi, I earn and I spend enough to keep myself happy and content.. Written Jun 30, 2014 I traveled couple of years ago and I carried USD. Here are the reasons why - Conversion rate is better. Converting to Baht will give you poor rates Again, while coming back with remaining Baht, you'll face poor conversion rates USD will be less in volume so easy to carry. Not everyone in Thailand will exchange INR to Baht. USD can be exchanged anywhere. After returning back with remaining USD, you might just want to keep them for next travel/USD to go up and then exchange with INR. I am about to go on another vacation and has similar question/whether to carry USD or just my debit/credit card. But asking that as a separate question. 16.3k Views · View Upvotes · Not for Reproduction Share Albert Ho Written Mar 25 As others have said, the money exchangers in Thailand generally take the least commission from USD/THB conversions. The conversion also is affected by bill denomination. In many places, the US $100 bill has better conversion rates to Thai Baht than US $20 or $50 bills. If I were you, I would most definitely carry some THB to last a few days and USD in $100 bills. 7.3k Views · View Upvotes · Not for Reproduction Share 123Next ? 10 | 20stories per page Related Questions India imports from China in which currency? Yuan or Dollars? And when yuan has devalued against dollar even rupee has depreciated against dollar, so eventually things should remain same right? 1,117 Views I am travelling for the first time to Mauritius. What currency should I take with me? How much minimum cash should I ca