Market economy - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Market economy From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Part of a series on Economic systems By ideology Anarchist Capitalist Christian Communist Corporatist Democratic Dirigist Distributionist Fascist Feudalism Georgist Green Islamic Laissez-faire Market socialist Mercantilist Mutualist Neo-mercantilist Participatory Protectionist Socialist State capitalist Syndicalist By coordination Closed (autarky) Decentralized Digital Dual Gift Informal Market Mixed Natural Open Planned Robinson Crusoe Subsistence Underground Vertical archipelago Virtual By regional model Asian East Asian Chinese Singaporean Soviet European Anglo-Saxon German Nordic Rhenish Sectors Common property Private Public Voluntary Transition Collectivization Communization Corporatization Demutualization Deregulation Expropriation Financialization Liberalization Marketization Municipalization Mutualization Nationalization Privatization Socialization Coordination Barter Cybernetics Democratic Free market In kind Indicative planning Market Material balancing Planned Peer-to-peer Price Regulated market Self-managed Shared Other types Corporate capitalism Expeditionary Hunter-gatherer Inclusive Democracy Information Islamic economics Manorialism Newly industrialized Palace Plantation Plutonomy Post-capitalist Post-industrial Post-scarcity Resource-based Social market Socialist market State monopoly capitalist Token Traditional Transition World Business and economics portal v t e A market economy is an economy in which decisions regarding investment, production, and distribution are based on market determined supply and demand,[1] and prices of goods and services are determined in a free price system.[2] The major defining characteristic of a market economy is that investment decisions and the allocation of producer goods are mainly made by cooperative negotiation through markets.[3] This is contrasted with a planned economy, where investment and production decisions are embodied in a plan of production established by a state or other body with control over economic resources. Market economies can range from regulated markets to various forms of state-owned interventionist variants. In reality, market economies and free markets do not exist in "pure" form, since societies and governments all regulate them to varying degrees.[4][5] Different perspectives exist as to how strong a role the government should have in both guiding and regulating the market economies and addressing (or not addressing) the inequalities the market naturally produces since some producers are always "better" than others. Most existing market economies include a degree of state economic planning or state-directed activity, and are thus classified as mixed economies. The term free-market economy is sometimes used synonymously with market economy.[6] Market economies do not logically presuppose the existence of private ownership of the means of production. A market economy can and often does consist of a mix of various types of cooperatives, collectives, or autonomous state agencies that acquire and exchange capital goods in capital markets. These all utilize a market determined free price system to allocate capital goods and labor.[3] There are many variations of market socialism, some of which involve employee-owned enterprises based on self-management; as well as models that involve public ownership of the means of production where capital goods are allocated through markets.[7] Contents 1 Capitalism 1.1 Laissez-faire 1.2 Free-market economy 1.3 Welfare capitalism 1.4 Regional models 1.4.1 Anglo-Saxon model 1.4.2 East Asian model 1.4.3 Social market economy 2 Market socialism 2.1 Public ownership models 2.2 Cooperative socialism 2.3 Socialist market economy 3 Criticisms 4 See also 5 References Capitalism[edit] Main article: Capitalism Part of a series on Capitalism Concepts Business Business cycle Capital Capital accumulation Capital markets Capitalist mode of production Company Corporation Competitive markets Economic interventionism Economic surplus Fictitious capital Financial market Free price system Free market Invisible hand Liberalization Marginalism Money Private property Privatization Profit Supply and demand Surplus value Wage labour Economic systems Anglo-Saxon Free market Laissez-faire Mercantile Mixed Nordic Regulated market Regulatory Rhine Social market State Welfare East Asian Economic theories American Austrian Chicago Classical Institutional Keynesian Marxian Modern Monetary Monetarist Neoclassical New institutional New Keynesian Supply-side Origins Age of Enlightenment Capitalism and Islam Commercial Revolution Feudalism Industrial Revolution Mercantilism Primitive accumulation Physiocracy Simple commodity production Development Advanced Consumer Corporate Crony Finance Global Late Marxist Merchant Rentier State monopoly Techno People Adam Smith John Stuart Mill David Ricardo Thomas Malthus Jean-Baptiste Say Milton Friedman Friedrich Hayek John Maynard Keynes Alfred Marshall Ludwig von Mises Murray Rothbard Joseph Schumpeter Thorstein Veblen Max Weber Ronald Coase Related topics Anti-capitalism Black capitalism Capitalist state Consumerism Corporatism Crisis theory Criticism of capitalism Cronyism Culture of capitalism Exploitation Globalization History History of theory Market economy Periodizations of capitalism Perspectives on capitalism Post-capitalism Speculation Spontaneous order Venture philanthropy Ideologies Anarcho-capitalism Democratic capitalism Dirigisme Eco-capitalism Humanistic capitalism Inclusive capitalism Liberalism (economic) Libertarianism Neo-Capitalism Neoliberalism Objectivism Ordoliberalism Social democracy Capitalism portal Economics portal Philosophy portal Politics portal v t e Capitalism generally refers to an economic system where the means of production are largely or entirely privately owned and operated for a profit, structured on the process of capital accumulation. In general, in capitalist systems investment, distribution, income, and prices are determined by markets, whether regulated or unregulated. There are different variations of capitalism with different relationships to markets. In Laissez-faire and free market variations of capitalism, markets are utilized most extensively with minimal or no state intervention and regulation over prices and the supply of goods and services. In interventionist, welfare capitalism and mixed economies, markets continue to play a dominant role but are regulated to some extent by government in order to correct market failures or to promote social welfare. In state capitalist systems, markets are relied upon the least, with the state relying heavily on either indirect economic planning and/or state-owned enterprises to accumulate capital. Capitalism has been dominant in the Western world since the end of feudalism, but most feel[who?] that the term "mixed economies" more precisely describes most contemporary economies, due to their containing both private-owned and state-owned enterprises. In capitalism, prices determine the demand-supply scale. For example, higher demand for certain goods and services lead to higher prices and lower demand for certain goods lead to lower prices. Laissez-faire[edit] Main articles: Laissez-faire and Economic liberalism Laissez-faire is synonymous with what was referred to as strict capitalist free market economy during the early and mid-19th century[citation needed] as a classical liberal (right-libertarian) ideal to achieve. It is generally understood that the necessary components for the functioning of an idealized free market include the complete absence of government regulation, subsidies, artificial price pressures, and government-granted monopolies (usually classified as coercive monopoly by free market advocates) and no taxes or tariffs other than what is necessary for the government to provide protection from coercion and theft, maintaining peace and property rights, and providing for basic public goods. Right-libertarian advocates of anarcho-capitalism see the state as morally illegitimate and economically unnecessary and destructive. Free-market economy[edit] See also: Free market Free-market economy refers to an economic system where prices for goods and services are set freely by the forces of supply and demand and are allowed to reach their point of equilibrium without intervention by government policy. It typically entails support for highly competitive markets, private ownership of productive enterprises. Laissez-faire is a more extensive form of free-market economy where the role of the state is limited to protecting property rights. Welfare capitalism[edit] Main article: Welfare capitalism Welfare capitalism refers to a capitalist economy that includes public policies favoring extensive provisions for social welfare services. The economic mechanism involves a free market and the predominance of privately owned enterprises in the economy, but public provision of universal welfare services aimed at enhancing individual autonomy and maximizing equality. Examples of contemporary welfare capitalism include the Nordic model of capitalism predominant in Northern Europe.[8] Regional models[edit] Anglo-Saxon model[edit] Main article: Anglo-Saxon economy Anglo-Saxon capitalism refers to the form of capitalism predominant in Anglophone countries and typified by the economy of the United States. It is contrasted with European models of capitalism such as the continental Social market model and the Nordic model. Anglo-Saxon capitalism refers to a macroeconomic policy regime and capital market structure common to the Anglophone economies. Among these characteristics are low rates of taxation, more open financial markets, lower labor market protections, and a less generous welfare state eschewing collective bargaining schemes found in the continental and northern European models of capitalism.[9] East Asian model[edit] Main article: East Asian model of capitalism The East Asian model of capitalism involves a strong role for state investment, and in some instances involves state-owned enterprises. The state takes an active role in promoting economic development through subsidies, the facilitation of "national champions", and an export-based model of growth. The actual practice of this model varies by country. This designation has been applied to the economies of Singapore, Japan, Taiwan, South Korea and the People's Republic of China. A related concept in political science is the developmental state. Social market economy[edit] Main article: Social market economy This model was implemented by Alfred Müller-Armack and Ludwig Erhard after World War II in West Germany. The social market economic model (sometimes called "Rhine capitalism") is based upon the idea of realizing the benefits of a free market economy, especially economic performance and high supply of goods, while avoiding disadvantages such as market failure, destructive competition, concentration of economic power and the anti-social effects of market processes. The aim of the social market economy is to realize greatest prosperity combined with best possible social security. One difference from the free market economy is that the state is not passive, but takes active regulatory measures.[10] The social policy objectives include employment, housing and education policies, as well as a socio-politically motivated balancing of the distribution of income growth. Characteristics of social market economies are a strong competition policy and a contractionary monetary policy. The philosophical background is Neoliberalism or Ordoliberalism[11] Market socialism[edit] Main article: Market socialism Part of a series on Socialism Development History of socialism Socialist calculation debate Socialist economics Ideas Calculation in kind Collective ownership Cooperative Common ownership Economic democracy Economic planning Equal opportunity Free association Industrial democracy Input–output model Internationalism Labour voucher Material balancing Peer?to?peer economics (Sharing economy) Production for use State ownership Self-management Social dividend Social ownership & Socialization To each according to his contribution Workplace democracy Models Decentralized planning Participatory economics Market socialism Economic democracy Georgism Lange model Mutualism Ricardian socialism Planned economy Soviet-type Project Cybersyn Socialist market economy Socialist-oriented market Variants African Agrarian Anarchist Authoritarian Blanquism Democratic Ethical Ecological Feminist Georgism Guild Impossibilism Liberal Libertarian Market Marhaenism Marxian One country Owenism Reformism Religious Revisionism Revolutionary Ricardian Scientific Social democracy State Syndicalism Technocracy Utopian with Chinese characteristics Zionist 21st-century History by country Brazil Canada France Hong Kong India Netherlands New Zealand Pakistan United Kingdom United States People Charles Hall François-Noël Babeuf Henri de Saint-Simon Robert Owen Charles Fourier Louis Auguste Blanqui William Thompson Thomas Hodgskin Pierre-Joseph Proudhon Louis Blanc Moses Hess Karl Marx Friedrich Engels Mikhail Bakunin Ferdinand Lassalle William Morris Peter Kropotkin Mary Harris Jones Georgi Plekhanov Fernand Pelloutier Eugene V. Debs Ben Tillett John Dewey Karl Polanyi G. D. H. Cole Eduard Bernstein Antonio Gramsci Luis Emilio Recabarren Sidney Hook Noam Chomsky Leon Trotsky Joseph Stalin Rosa Luxemburg José Carlos Mariátegui Enrico Barone Fred M. Taylor Errico Malatesta Antonie Pannekoek Farabundo Martí Oskar R. Lange Abba P. Lerner Léon Blum Mao Zedong Edvard Kardelj Clement Attlee Josip Broz Tito Einar Gerhardsen Olof Palme Fidel Castro Ho Chi Minh Che Guevara Salvador Allende Deng Xiaoping Mikhail Gorbachev Hugo Chávez Evo Morales Bernie Sanders Organizations First International (International Workingmen's Assoc) Second International Third International (Comintern) Fourth International Fifth International Socialist International World Federation of Democratic Youth International Union of Socialist Youth World Socialist Movement International Committee of the Fourth International Related topics Anarchism Capitalism Communism Communist society Criticism of capitalism Economic system List of socialist economists Marxism Nanosocialism Progressivism Socialism and LGBT rights Socialist Party Socialist state Socialism portal Economics portal Politics portal v t e Market socialism refers to various types of economic systems where the means of production and the dominant economic institutions are either publicly owned or cooperatively owned but operated according to the rules of supply and demand. This type of market economy has its roots in classical economics and in the works of Adam Smith, the Ricardian socialists and Mutualist philosophers.[12] The distinguishing feature between non-market socialism and market socialism is the existence of a market for factors of production and the criteria of profitability for enterprises. Profits derived from publicly owned enterprises can variously be used to reinvest in further production, to directly finance government and social services, or be distributed to the public at large through a social dividend or basic income system.[13] Public ownership models[edit] In the 1930s, the economists Oskar Lange and Abba Lerner developed a model of socialism that posited that a public body (dubbed the "Central Planning Board") can set prices through a trial-and-error approach until they equaled the marginal cost of production in order to achieve perfect competition and pareto optimality. In this model of socialism, firms would be state-owned and managed by their employees, and the profits would be disbursed among the population in a social dividend. This model came to be referred to as "market socialism" because it involved the use of money, a price system and simulated capital markets, all of which are absent from traditional non-market conceptions of socialism. A more contemporary model of market socialism is that put forth by the American economist John Roemer, referred to as Economic democracy. In this model, social ownership is achieved through public ownership of equity in a market economy. A Bureau of Public Ownership (BPO) would own controlling shares in publicly listed firms, so that the profits generated would be used for public finance and the provision of a basic income. Cooperative socialism[edit] Libertarian socialists and left-anarchists often promote a form of market socialism in which enterprises are owned and managed cooperatively by their workforce so that the profits directly remunerate the employee-owners. These cooperative enterprises would compete with each other in the same way private companies compete with each other in a capitalist market. The first major elaboration of this type of market socialism was made by Pierre Joseph Proudhon and was called "mutualism". Self-managed market socialism was promoted in Yugoslavia by economists Branko Horvat and Jaroslav Vanek. In the self-managed model of socialism, firms would be directly owned by their employees and the management board would be elected by employees. These cooperative firms would compete with each other in a market for both capital goods and for selling consumer goods. Socialist market economy[edit] Following the 1978 reforms, the People's Republic of China instituted what it calls a "socialist market economy", in which most of the economy is under state ownership, but the state enterprises are organized as joint-stock companies where various government agencies own controlling shares through a shareholder system. Prices are set by a largely free-price system and the state-owned enterprises are not subjected to micromanagement by a government planning agency. A similar system called "socialist-oriented market economy" has emerged in Vietnam following the ??i M?i reforms in 1986. However, this system is usually characterized as state capitalism instead of market socialism because there is no meaningful degree of employee self-management in firms, because the state enterprises retain their profits instead of distributing them to the workforce or government, and many function as de facto private enterprises. The profits neither finance a social dividend to benefit the population at large, nor do they accrue to their employees. In the People's Republic of China, this economic model is presented as a "preliminary stage of socialism" to explain the dominance of capitalistic management practices and forms of enterprise organization in both the state and non-state sectors. Criticisms[edit] The economist Joseph Stiglitz argues that markets suffer from informational inefficiency and the presumed efficiency of markets stems from the faulty assumptions of neoclassical welfare economics, particularly the assumption of perfect and costless information, and related incentive problems. Neoclassical economics assumes static equilibrium, and efficient markets require that there be no non-convexities, even though nonconvexities are pervasive in modern economies. Stiglitz's critique applies to both existing models of capitalism and to hypothetical models of market socialism. However, Stiglitz does not advocate replacing markets, but states that there is a significant role for government intervention to boost the efficiency of markets and to address the pervasive market failures that exist in contemporary economies.[14] Robin Hahnel and Michael Albert claim that "markets inherently produce class division."[15] Albert states that even if everyone started out with a balanced job complex (doing a mix of roles of varying creativity, responsibility and empowerment) in a market economy, class divisions would arise. Without taking the argument that far, it is evident that in a market system with uneven distribution of empowering work, such as Economic Democracy, some workers will be more able than others to capture the benefits of economic gain. For example, if one worker designs cars and another builds them, the designer will use his cognitive skills more frequently than the builder. In the long term, the designer will become more adept at conceptual work than the builder, giving the former greater bargaining power in a firm over the distribution of income. A conceptual worker who is not satisfied with his income can threaten to work for a company that will pay him more. The effect is a class division between conceptual and manual laborers, and ultimately managers and workers, and a de facto labor market for conceptual workers.[15] David McNally argues that the logic of the market inherently produces inequitable outcomes and leads to unequal exchanges, arguing that Adam Smith's moral intent and moral philosophy espousing equal exchange was undermined by the practice of the free markets he championed. The development of the market economy involved coercion, exploitation and violence that Adam Smith's moral philosophy could not countenance. McNally also criticizes market socialists for believing in the possibility of "fair" markets based on equal exchanges to be achieved by purging "parasitical" elements from the market economy, such as private ownership of the means of production. McNally argues that market socialism is an oxymoron when socialism is defined as an end to wage-based labor.[16] See also[edit] Economic freedom Economic liberalism Free market Grey market Market socialism Market structure Mixed economy Neoclassical economics Planned economy Price system Regulated market Social market economy Socialist market economy References[edit] ^ Gregory and Stuart, Paul and Robert (2004). Comparing Economic Systems in the Twenty-First Century, Seventh Edition. George Hoffman. p. 538. ISBN 0-618-26181-8. Market Economy: Economy in which fundamentals of supply and demand provide signals regarding resource utilization.  ^ Altvater, E. (1993). The Future of the Market: An Essay on the Regulation of Money and Nature After the Collapse of "Actually Existing Socialism. Verso. p. 57.  ^ a b Paul M. Johnson (2005). "A Glossary of Political Economy Terms, Market economy". Auburn University. Retrieved 28 December 2012.  ^ Altvater, E. (1993). The Future of the Market: An Essay on the Regulation of Money and Nature After the Collapse of "Actually Existing Socialism. Verso. pp. 237–238.  ^ Tucker, Irvin B. p 491. Macroeconomics for Today. West Publishing. p. 491 ^ "market economy", Merriam-Webster Unabridged Dictionary ^ Bock man, Johanna (2011). Markets in the name of Socialism: The Left-Wing origins of Neoliberalism. Stanford University Press. ISBN 978-0-8047-7566-3.  ^ "The surprising ingredients of Swedish success - free markets and social cohesion" (PDF). Institute of Economic Affairs. June 25, 2013. Retrieved January 15, 2014.  ^ Anglo-Saxon capitalism, Business Dictionary on BusinessDictionary.com: http://www.businessdictionary.com/definition/Anglo-Saxon-capitalism.html ^ keyword "social market economy" = “Soziale Marktwirtschaft” Duden Wirtschaft von A bis Z. Grundlagenwissen für Schule und Studium, Beruf und Alltag. 2. Aufl. Mannheim: Bibliographisches Institut & F.A. Brockhaus 2004. Lizenzausgabe Bonn: Bundeszentrale für politische Bildung 2004. ^ Duden Wirtschaft von A bis Z: Eintrag: keyword "social market economy" = Soziale Marktwirtschaft ^ McNally, David (1993). Against the Market: Political economy, market socialism and the Marxist critique. Verso. p. 44. ISBN 978-0-86091-606-2. ...by the 1820s, 'Smithian' apologists for industrial capitalism confronted 'Smithian' socialists in a vigorous, and often venomous, debate over political economy.  ^ Social Dividend versus Basic Income Guarantee in Market Socialism, by Marangos, John. 2004. International Journal of Political Economy, vol. 34, no. 3, Fall 2004. ^ Michie, Jonathan (January 1, 2001). Reader’s Guide to the Social Sciences. Routledge. p. 1012. ISBN 978-1579580919. Stiglitz criticizes the first and second welfare theorems for being based on the assumptions of complete markets (including a full set of futures and risk markets) and perfect and costless information, which are simply not true. Incentives are dubious too. Thus, capitalist markets are also not efficient and there is some role for government intervention. The ability to decentralize using the price system requires that there be no nonconvexities, but nonconvexities 