How Low-Skilled Workers Could Rescue the U.S. Economy - Real Time Economics - WSJ
    DOW JONES, A NEWS CORP COMPANY News Corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services. DOW JONES Barron's BigCharts DJX Dow Jones Newswires Factiva Financial News Mansion Global MarketWatch Newsmart NewsPlus Private Markets Risk & Compliance WSJ.com WSJ Pro WSJ Conference WSJ Video NEWS CORP Big Decisions Business Spectator Checkout51 Harper Collins New York Post PropTiger REA realtor.com Storyful The Australian The Sun The Times DJIA ? 18123.80 -0.49%   S&P 500 ? 2139.16 -0.38%   Nasdaq ? 5244.57 -0.10%   U.S. 10 Yr ? 0/32 yield 1.692%   Crude Oil ? 43.19 -1.64%   Euro ? 1.1157 -0.77%   Subscribe Now Sign In The Wall Street Journal Sections My Journal Home World U.S. Politics Economy Business Tech Markets Opinion Arts Life Real Estate Today's Paper SHOW ALL SECTIONS HIDE ALL SECTIONS World Home Africa Asia Canada China Europe Latin America Middle East Brussels Real Time China Real Time India Real Time Economy World Video U.S. Home Economy Law New York Politics Real Time Economics The Numbers Washington Wire Journal Report U.S. Video What's News Podcast Politics Home Think Tank Washington Wire Politics Video WSJ/NBC News Poll Economy Home Real Time Economics Economic Forecasting Survey Economy Video Business Home Management Tech/WSJ.D Aerospace & Defense Autos & Transportation Commercial Real Estate Consumer Products Energy Entrepreneurship Financial Services Food & Services Health Care Hospitality Law Manufacturing Media & Marketing Natural Resources Retail CFO Journal CIO Journal CMO Today Logistics Report Risk & Compliance Bankruptcy Beat Heard on the Street Business Video Journal Report Business Podcast Tech Home CIO Journal E-Commerce Mobile Personal Tech Privacy & Security Startups Christopher Mims Geoffrey Fowler Joanna Stern Personal Tech News Venture Capital Dispatch Billion Dollar Startup Club Tech Trader Daily Tech Video The Accelerators Tech Podcast Markets Home Bonds Commercial Real Estate Commodities & Futures Currencies Deals Financial Services Funds Stocks Your Money Heard on the Street MoneyBeat Wealth Adviser Ahead of the Tape CFO Journal Journal Report Market Data Markets Video Markets Podcast MoneyBeat Podcast Heard on the Street Podcast Watching Your Wealth Podcast Opinion Home Arts in Review Book Reviews Commentary Editorials Letters to the Editor Best of the Web Columnists Morning Editorial Report Peggy Noonan Political Diary Opinion Video Potomac Watch Podcast Foreign Edition Podcast Arts Home Arts in Review Books Speakeasy Arts Video WSJ. Magazine Speakeasy Podcast Life Home Careers Cars Food & Drink Health Ideas Real Estate Science Sports Style & Fashion Travel Expat Off Duty Daily The Daily Fix Life Video WSJ. Magazine WSJ Puzzles Off Duty Podcast The Future of Everything Real Estate Home Commercial Real Estate House of the Day Mansion Real Estate Video HIDE ALL SECTIONS Aim higher, reach further. Get the Wall Street Journal $12 for 12 weeks. Subscribe Now Sign In Reveal Navigation Options Home World Regions Africa Asia Canada China Europe Latin America Middle East Blogs Brussels Real Time China Real Time India Real Time Sections Economy More World Video U.S. Sections Economy Law New York Politics Columns & Blogs Real Time Economics The Numbers Washington Wire More Journal Report U.S. Video What's News Podcast Politics Blogs Think Tank Washington Wire More Politics Video WSJ/NBC News Poll Economy Blogs Real Time Economics More Economic Forecasting Survey Economy Video Business Sections Management Tech/WSJ.D Industries Aerospace & Defense Autos & Transportation Commercial Real Estate Consumer Products Energy Entrepreneurship Financial Services Food & Services Health Care Hospitality Law Manufacturing Media & Marketing Natural Resources Retail C-Suite CFO Journal CIO Journal CMO Today Logistics Report Risk & Compliance Columns & Blogs Bankruptcy Beat Heard on the Street More Business Video Journal Report Business Podcast Tech Sections CIO Journal E-Commerce Mobile Personal Tech Privacy & Security Startups Columns & Blogs Christopher Mims Geoffrey Fowler Joanna Stern Personal Tech News Venture Capital Dispatch More Billion Dollar Startup Club Tech Trader Daily Tech Video The Accelerators Tech Podcast Markets Sections Bonds Commercial Real Estate Commodities & Futures Currencies Deals Financial Services Funds Stocks Your Money Columns & Blogs Heard on the Street MoneyBeat Wealth Adviser Ahead of the Tape More CFO Journal Journal Report Market Data Markets Video Markets Podcast MoneyBeat Podcast Heard on the Street Podcast Watching Your Wealth Podcast Opinion Sections Arts in Review Book Reviews Commentary Editorials Letters to the Editor Columns & Blogs Best of the Web Columnists Morning Editorial Report Peggy Noonan Political Diary More Opinion Video Potomac Watch Podcast Foreign Edition Podcast Arts Sections Arts in Review Books Blogs Speakeasy More Arts Video WSJ. Magazine Speakeasy Podcast Life Sections Careers Cars Food & Drink Health Ideas Real Estate Science Sports Style & Fashion Travel Blogs Expat Off Duty Daily The Daily Fix More Life Video WSJ. Magazine WSJ Puzzles Off Duty Podcast The Future of Everything Real Estate Sections Commercial Real Estate House of the Day Mansion More Real Estate Video Search SEARCH ? Subscribe Sign In U.S. Consumer Prices Rose 0.2% in August Markets Have Become More Dependent on Central Banks, Says BIS Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart’s Retiring. Who’s Next? Donald Trump Faces Pressure on Debt, Deficit Bank of Canada Governor’s Private Remarks Raise Information-Access Concerns For Cities Getting Richer the Fastest, Look to the South Want to Fix the U.S. Economy? Start With the Broken Political System More Weeks of Unemployment Benefits Don’t Lead to Better-Paying Jobs Food-Price Shocks Outweigh Oil Surges A Political Backlash Rises Where Social Fabric Frays How China’s Past Stimulus Is Dogging Its Growth Prospects U.S. Households Make Long-Awaited Gains in Housing Recovery Why the Stimulus from Low Oil Prices Never Really Boosted the Economy New Laws Haven’t Made Big Banks Safer, Lawrence Summers Says Optimism Fades for Economic Boost By Year-End U.S. Consumer Sentiment Unchanged in September Home Prices Help Lift U.S. Household Wealth to Record Fiscal Policy Makes a Quiet Turn Toward Stimulus U.S. Retail Sales Fell in August U.S. Jobless Claims Ticked Up Slightly Fed Missteps Fueled 2016 Populist Revolt U.S. Producer Prices Unchanged in August The World Bank’s Uncontested Election Turns Back the Clock What Percent Are You? Three Fed Officials Say No Hurry to Raise Short-Term Rates Fed’s Dislike of Negative Interest Rates Points to Limits of Stimulus How Much Does It Cost to Raise a Child? This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com. http://blogs.wsj.com/economics/2016/08/02/how-low-skilled-workers-could-rescue-the-u-s-economy/ Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ Text Size Regular Medium Large Google+ Print Next Story > Real Time Economics economics How Low-Skilled Workers Could Rescue the U.S. Economy Their re-entry into the labor force will help power a revival in growth over the next decade, a Harvard economist argues ENLARGE A man fills out a job application last month in Miami Lakes, Fla. Workers now on the sidelines will help fuel U.S. growth, a new paper says. Photo: Lynne Sladky/Associated Press By Adam Creighton Adam Creighton The Wall Street Journal CANCEL BiographyAdam Creighton @adam_creighton adam.creighton@dowjones.com Aug 2, 2016 2:06 pm ET 46 COMMENTS Remember those low-skilled workers, the ones who are disappearing from the work force because globalization and technology have passed them by? The ones whose economic frustration is driving populist politics around the world?  New research by Harvard economist Dale Jorgenson offers a cheerier outlook for both them and economic growth. His new study, which breaks down the forces propelling U.S. growth since 1947—the year the transistor was invented—and projects them forward to 2024, anticipates a boom in low-skilled work that rekindles economic growth to the tune of 2.49% a year from now till then, a little above the 2.34% experienced from 1990 to 2014. Those workers will fill service jobs in a growing economy, he suggests. While the average quality of the labor force will begin to flat-line, the number of hours worked will rebound as employment-participation rates flick back to near where they were before the Great Recession, the paper says. Among men and women ages 25 to 35 with only high-school qualifications, these rates are still 10 percentage points below their peaks in the early 2000s (at just under 80% and 60%, respectively). “There are a lot of hours out there that aren’t being employed properly and they will be employed,” Mr. Jorgenson said in an interview, noting participation rates were already starting to rise as wages rose and employers struggled to fill positions. Some of the pessimism about the growth outlook stemmed from a misreading of the past and a misguided faith in official economic statistics, he said. Paul Krugman famously said “productivity isn’t everything, but in the long run it is almost everything.” But Jorgenson’s paper, written with a senior economist at the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, shows increases in capital and labor have accounted for 80% of economic growth in the U.S. since 1947. Capital contributed 50% and improvements in the quality and amount of labor 30%, the economists found, leaving total factor productivity—typically seen as a”black box,” the excess of economic growth over and above improvements in labor and capital—contributing 20%. “The standard story doesn’t have as clear a concept of the quality of the labor and quality of capital that goes into growth,” Mr. Jorgenson said. The study does point to a one drag on growth: a “looming plateau in educational attainment” as the higher-education sector reaches a saturation point. Almost 40% of young Americans enter the labor market with college qualifications, more than double the level of the 1950s. “There’s a limit to how many can go. There are diminishing returns to having more people in study,” Mr. Jorgenson said. But the Harvard professor also said that national statistic agencies over the last decade have failed to adequately capture the falls in prices of some goods and services, such as cloud computing, which were spreading rapidly throughout the economy. That would understate the contribution of information technology to investment and GDP growth, for instance. “There’s quite a lot of evidence that the economy is growing faster than we think,” he said. RELATED As Low-Skilled Jobs Disappear, Men Drop Out of the Workforce (June 20, 2016) Why Does U.S. Productivity Look So Abysmal? Not Mismeasurement, Paper Says (Feb. 12, 2016) What We Know About the 92 Million Americans Who Aren’t in the Labor Force (Oct. 21, 2015) The U.S. Stands Out on Labor-Force Participation Rates (June 26, 2015) Will the Labor Force See a Resurgence? The Question Divides Economists (Dec. 29, 2014) Share this: economic data economic growth Economic research economy educational attainment GDP Productivity research Previous In Pennsylvania, Nafta's a Campaign Issue. But It's Not What Did the Damage. Next The First, Forgotten Conspiracy Theory About the Unemployment Rate Save Article Sign In to Save Subscribe to WSJ Text Size Regular Medium Large Google+ Print 46 comments   Get Livefyre FAQ Sign in + Follow Post comment   Link Newest | Oldest james kow subscriber 5pts 1. if i am not mistaken, you have--not mexican--but 10 million plus workers from latin america south of central america already working in the usa. i am reying on dr. ocampo from columbia for this estimate. and today there is an article that ohio requires foreign workers. 2. actually in the beginning the nascent agricultural us economy wanted and actively sought workers from other parts of the world. you are a nation of immigrants, and successfully so--trump notwithstanding. from germany! your immigrant forefathers recruited immigrants to build the us economy and us society. 3. that is your diversity. Thomas W Marsh subscriber 5pts Just another excuse to "excuse" American workers from their jobs and be replaced by "cheaper" workers who are not part of the Obamacare requirement....or that they too can be hired at a cheaper rate and less benefits.  The desire influx of border crossers, refugees and foreign visa holder is both an attempt for rapid citizenship and voting as well as to attack the middle class of America.  If you destroy or reduce the middle class you will remove the biggest critically nationalistic class of America...and if you displace Americans then you make them dependent on govt handouts. The socio-economic conditions in America are being manipulated by the dems to ensure THEY STAY IN POWER....and not in the interest of the American citizens. Madelene Teperson subscriber 5pts More nonsense from the Ivy League. Stan Baxter user 5pts There is no such rhing as a 'low skill job' it's a term to make educated people with livable salaries justify less educated people not earning livable salaries. Any person who can not earn a livable salary should choose to stay out of the workforce. Labor unions got stronger during the depression by encouraging this behaviour. Yes the greatest generation had men that refused low pay work for no pay charity dependence. Businesses will only pay fair wages if forced, HENCE Populist candidates are drawing American votes with the immigration issue. Madelene Teperson subscriber 5pts @Stan Baxter A stupid post. Dom Fried subscriber 5pts ...number of hours worked will rebound as employment-participation rates flick back to near where they were before the Great Recession... . And employment participation rate increases will be driven by the rebound in the number of hours worked. Which will in turn further increase participation. It'll be a virtuous circle. John Pound subscriber 5pts Economists do best when they try not to predict the future, but rather do post-mortems and advise what worked and what didn't in the past. Unless the discussion includes the 800lb gorilla of interventionist government, we are just playing with ourselves... Lawrence Beck subscriber 5pts @John Pound Johnny One-Note plays his tune. Lawrence Beck subscriber 5pts @John Pound @Lawrence Beck Do you have another note, Johnny? Alan kelman subscriber 5pts @Lawrence Beck @John Pound  But what if that one note is really really relevant and important? What if that one note is preventing all of the other notes from being played and heard?  Or maybe it is preferable to play meaningless notes just to be novel and different. Dom Fried subscriber 5pts @Alan kelman @John Pound Antônio Carlos Jobim once bragged that he was so good, he could write a great tune using only one note. So someone dared him to do it. So he wrote One Note Samba, which reached the number one spot on the Billboard 200 in 1963. Many others covered it, and it's been immemorialized as a Jazz standard. John Pound subscriber 5pts @Lawrence Beck @John Pound ad hominem is the response of the dull.... Martin Kubalanza subscriber 5pts Underemployment will continue creating a retirement nightmare 40 years into the future Manufacturing jobs industry jobs are what is needed John Pound subscriber 5pts @Martin Kubalanza What's worth more in the economy: $1 worth of coat hangers or $1 worth of IT? $1 worth of tee-shirts or a $1 worth of land scaping? $1 worth of plastic molding or $1 worth of doggie-daycare? $1 worth of agriculture or $1 worth of delivery services? Thomas W Marsh subscriber 5pts @Martin Kubalanza I would say that is within the next 30 yrs...or sooner since many workers are not that far away from retirement....unfortunately for many in the 30-early 40s they have little put away into retirement and they know social security will not flll the retirement need by itself.  A very bad scene will occur for our kids when it is time for them to retire. John Fleri subscriber 5pts The low wage senerio is not realistic as Gov handouts exceed $60k per year for sitting on your butt and doing nothing. Those who know how to milk the system will never work. The jobs indicated in the story will be filled by robotics units. John Pound subscriber 5pts @John Fleri Bullseye - unless the conversation includes the disincentives to work provided by the social-welfare state at the lower end of the economic scale, lots of these low wage jobs are and will continue to go begging... Lawrence Beck subscriber 5pts @John Pound @John Fleri Low-wage jobs go unfilled because they're lousy and they don't pay anything.  Criticize all you want, but I'll bet you wouldn't consider working as a dishwasher, a strawberry picker or a nursing home aide for minimum wage. Mary Goodson subscriber 5pts @Lawrence Beck @John Pound @John Fleri  Why should one work in those jobs when you can go on welfare or get a nice big old government check?  These people aren't stoooopid, they are just lazy. jorge cruz rodriguez user 5pts @Mary Goodson @Lawrence Beck @John Pound @John Fleri -- Have you guys been on Welfare?  You seem to know a lot about it. Madelene Teperson subscriber 5pts @Lawrence Beck @John Pound @John Fleri Stop Welfare and people would work.  You're just a thief, Mr. Beck. Lawrence Beck subscriber 5pts @jorge cruz rodriguez @Mary Goodson @Lawrence Beck @John Pound @John Fleri As soon as poor Ms. Goodson said "nice big old government check," it was clear that she knows nothing about assistance programs.  None of these people do.  They're just smug and selfish. Lawrence Beck subscriber 5pts @Madelene Teperson @Lawrence Beck @John Pound @John Fleri And you're some grotesque creature out of a Dickens novel. jonathan brandt subscriber 5pts @Lawrence Beck @Madelene Teperson @John Pound @John Fleri Lawrence, this is my favorite comment of the year:) Mike OGrady subscriber 5pts Many Service Sector jobs will pay low wages until such time the actual worker gains enough skills to merit higher pay. That triggers one of two events - workers leave their position and job hop to a higher pay scale elsewhere or employers see too much churn and offshore these jobs even more. A large percentage of these jobs can be automated to some extent as well.  danny freeman subscriber 5pts Are you fing kidding me? The Masters of the Universe have been telling us that low skilled work SHOULD be done offshore blah, blah, blah. NOW they may be our saviors?  BRUCE WING subscriber 5pts Right - I just love a vivid imagination It is manufacturing that is needed fool That way you wngage the entirw spectrum of jobs and suppliers, shippers and all levels of labor and educatjon Tax policy, regulation, reform - but gee that is contrary to the great progressive agrarian minds at Harvard. Sorry, I am not buying this authors propaganda John Pound subscriber 5pts @BRUCE WING What's more valuable, a business that can produce $1M of consumer value with 4 employees or one with 400 employees? A business that can produce $1M of consumer value with a $10M capital investment, or a $10k capital investment? jorge cruz rodriguez user 5pts @John Pound @BRUCE WING -- You can get $1M of consumer value only if the consumers have at least $1M to spend on your product, regardless of how it's produced.  I don't see this happening with a lot of unskilled low-wage labor, whether it's put into manufacturing or 'services'. STEVEN FRANKEL subscriber 5pts They overlook some really important things. The labor market at the low end is skewed horribly by unending entitlements that offer between 40-50k /yr in after tax free stuff when the labor these people can offer is not always able to match this. So they stay home and disengaged or they work the black market. They also overlook the fact that the 'educated' are actually not. The additional degree adds very little to the useful knowledge base. The HS grads of the 1940-1960's had much more usable knowledge to bring to a job than HS grads today that can't even make change at the register without assistance. The college grads are only somewhat better, they only begin to approach the usable knowledge the HS grads of yore possessed. Our labor market is geared for high level accomplishers that can be taxed to perdition to support the unskilled that get support to stay home. When that changes, they may have a point. Gene Ramirez subscriber 5pts The aging baby boomers will need help doing things like mowing the lawn and other household chores.   JASON STRICKLAND subscriber 5pts With a federally mandated minimum wage of $15/hr these folks will be leaving the workforce, not entering it. George Lawrence user 5pts And I'll bet he doesn't anticipate one recession in the next 20 years either. And he must think companies will suddenly start ignoring the cost of Obamacare and just suddenly start hiring full time people without skills for $15/hr ignoring it's high cost. Or that automation will illiminate most low paying jobs and has already started. A bit of wishful thinking by the author Van Hamlin subscriber 5pts The US population has always struggled with those who are undereducated, too sick to work, taking care of the sick in their family, and of course those who have made such poor lifestyle decisions that no one wants to hire them. I suspect that 5% of the population between 19 and 66 will never be employed. To help those who are not smart enough to learn and those who dropped out of school for other reasons can be helped in the short term simply by eliminating the glut in labor created by illegal immigration. The sad part is that unskilled labor will never make a true living wage. The Democrats talk about a $15.00 minimum wage, but that is barely enough to get a man and woman who both work full time out of the poverty zone. A combined $62,400.00 gross salary is eaten up by Daycare, rent, food, transportation and healthcare. There is no buffer zone. As robotics make workers more productive, these people will lose ground again. I suspect that the educational plateau will always with us. Alan Reynolds subscriber 5pts Dale Jorgenson is an iconic teacher/scholar who taught another - Stanford's Robert Hall, co-author of the Hall-Rabushka flat tax.  When I was research director with Jack Kemp's Tax Reform Commission I dragged them all up to Harvard to learn from Dale Jorgenson, a master.  When he talks, I listen. When he writes, I read.  Floyd Gross subscriber 5pts @Alan Reynolds  Dale Jorgenson is a pointy headed liberal.  The kind employed by Harvard and quoted in the Wall Street Journal.  To many of us who live in the real world and need to hire, it is clear he knows nothing about actual reality.  There is enough "free" stuff out there that they are not going to get out of bed every morning and work an actual job.  And with the southern border wide open, the invasion of minimum wage hordes will continue and these will take the lawn mowing jobs.  The tens of million of real Americans who have figured out they can get by with their SNAP cards and rent subsidies and "free" healthcare will continue to do nothing. Yakov Bakis subscriber 5pts This paper does not make any sense.  I can not believe a Harvard professor did the analysis and wrote this paper.  The reporter also should do his homework before writing about a scientific paper.  It does not fit to WSJ to print such an article. Richard Krauland subscriber 5pts Here's an idea to put millions of these folks back to work.  Spread it around: Why not use our abundant inexpensive energy supplies to fuel desalination plants on the west coast? Gas-liquefaction plants, pipeline construction, and desalination plant construction, would be wonderful employment opportunities. The fresh water would solve California's perennial droughts. The Central Valley could once again become productive farmland (more jobs), and the Colorado River could be fully used in states east of California, creating yet more jobs. Much of this would be paid for with private dollars (like the Keystone Pipeline). All it takes is LEADERSHIP. And we don't have that. TRUMP FOR PRESIDENT!!! jorge cruz rodriguez user 5pts @Richard Krauland -- The construction you're talking about requires expensive skilled labor.  This labor is already fully