The Economy's Effects on Small Businesses | Chron.com Skip to main content. Subscribe to the Houston Chronicle | Shopping | Classifieds | Obits | Place an Ad | La Voz Register | Sign In Home Local In Local Neighborhoods Houston & Texas Traffic Weather Education Politics & Policy Election 2013 Chronicle Investigates Obituaries Staff Blogs Reader Blogs Columnists Opinions & Editorials La Voz (Español) Neighborhoods Bay Area Bellaire Cy-Fair Fort Bend Heights Katy Kingwood Memorial Pearland Spring The Woodlands Houston & Texas Houston Texas Weather SciGuy's Weather Blog Houston Weather Severe Weather News Hurricane Guide Politics & Policy Texas Politics Houston Politics Endorsements Opinions & Editorials Editorials Letters to the Editor Outlook Nick Anderson Cartoons Bill King Columns Recommendations 2013 US & World In US & World US News World News The Americas Politics Space Strange & Weird News Videos JFK: After 50 Years Sports In Sports Texans Rockets Astros Dynamo High school Colleges UH Rice UT A&M Outdoors Videos More Sports Buy Tickets Outdoors Hunting & Fishing More Sports Golf Business In Business Energy Technology Real Estate Houston Business News Business Insider Markets Press Releases Small Business Mgmt Chron 100 Top Workplaces Legal News Sponsored Content Entertainment In Entertainment Preview Restaurants & Bars Restaurant Search Music Movies Movie Times Arts & Theater Horoscopes Comics & Games Things To Do Contests Preview Alison Cook Restaurant Reviews Whine & Dine Top 100 Restaurants Music Rolling Stone Heavy.com Lifestyle In Lifestyle Holidays Health Zone Style Mom Houston Houston Belief Food & Cooking Society Travel Pets Houston Gives Discover Houston Weddings & Celebrations Sponsored Content Health Zone M.D. Finder The Doctors Live Healthy Health Videos Better Sleep Style Luxury Auto Beauty Dining Fashion Home & Design Home Elegance Lust List Travel Window Shopping Food & Cooking Alison Cook Restaurant Reviews Whine & Dine Top 100 Restaurants Travel Flight Tracker Texas Road Trips Ski & Snow Discover Houston About Houston Arts & Entertainment Employment & Economy Food & Drink Health Care Real Estate Retirement Sports & Outdoors Suburbs Weekends Jobs In Jobs Advanced search Browse job categories Salary Wizard Career Rescue Careers in Engineering Salute to Nurses Work & Career Advice Job Fairs & Career Expo Post a Job Cars In Cars Cars & Auto News Heidi's Cars Blog Houston Auto Show New Car Search Used Car Search Certified Car Search Houston Auto Dealers Real Estate In Real Estate New Homes Second Homes Rentals Home Price Survey Research Mortgages Commercial Real Estate Farms & Ranches Senior Living Chron Homes App Subscribe Small Business Accounting & Bookkeeping| Advertising & Marketing| Business Communications & Etiquette |More » » Business Models & Organizational Structure » Business Planning & Strategy » Business Technology & Customer Support » Business & Workplace Regulations » Finances & Taxes » Human Resources » Managing Employees » Money & Debt » Running a Business » Setting Up a New Business » Types of Businesses to Start Small Business > Setting Up a New Business > Setting up a Small Business The Economy's Effects on Small Businesses by Lisa McQuerrey, studioD Small businesses feel economic changes faster than large companies. Polka Dot Images/Polka Dot/Getty Images Related Articles How Important Are Small Businesses to Local Economies? Effect of Recession on Small Businesses The Effects of Government Policies on Businesses The Impact of Technological Change on Business Activity Natural Environmental Factors That Affect Business Economic conditions impact all businesses, though small businesses often feel the effect of economic changes faster than their larger counterparts. Upswings in the economy typically provide a rush of new or expanded business opportunities for small operations, whereas a downward economic cycle can have a severe and lasting impact. Impact of a Strong Economy In a strong economy, nearly all businesses enjoy greater prosperity. Disposable income is high, unemployment is low and consumer confidence prompts people to pump their money back into the economy through the purchase of essential and nonessential goods and services. The impact of a strong economy on a small business is two-fold: as business increases, so too does the need for a small business to keep pace with demand by hiring additional employees, expanding retail space or adding new product lines. While this may be viewed as a positive, the downside is that if the economy starts to falter, many small businesses find themselves overextended, which can result in mass layoffs and business failures. Impact of a Slow Economy During an economic slowdown, many small businesses face a number of challenges. Consumers become concerned about their job stability and, in turn, are more likely to be cautious with expenditures, which leads to decreased revenue for small business owners. A slow profit stream can make it difficult for a small business to repay creditors, which can negatively impact its long-term viability. A business facing financial struggles is far less likely to qualify for loans for capital expenditures and operations, which limits growth opportunities. Many small businesses also are forced to downsize their workforce during a slow economy. This limits their ability to serve customers and contributes to the unemployment rate, which furthers slows the economy. Economy-Related Business Opportunities Some types of small businesses thrive in a slow economy. For example, companies that are involved in facilitating home foreclosures and vehicle and property repossessions find their businesses on an upswing during a slow economy. Additionally, small business owners with solid and substantial financial backing may see an increase in expansion opportunities by buying out their struggling competitors or absorbing the customer bases of out-of-business competitors. Economic Adaptation Small businesses have an advantage over large businesses when it comes to adapting to economic swings. Small businesses typically have a smaller decision-making base in terms of leadership. Whereas a large company may need to call numerous stockholder meetings to discuss changes in business strategy and direction, a small business is much more nimble in the decision-making process. Typically, a small business can make faster decisions to change course, increase or decrease workforce or product offerings or significantly change the company image to adapt to a changing economy. References (4) Business News Daily: Small Businesses Fear Economic Turmoil Will Spook Consumers National Federation of Independent Businesses: What to Do When You Can't Afford to Hire "U.S. News and World Report"; Is the Economy Killing Small Business?; Matthew Bandyk Small Business Update; The Current Economy Impact on Small Business; Manoj Jasra About the Author Lisa McQuerrey has been a business writer since 1987. In 1994, she launched a full-service marketing and communications firm. McQuerrey's work has garnered awards from the U.S. Small Business Administration, the International Association of Business Communicators and the Associated Press. She is also the author of several nonfiction trade publications, and, in 2012, had her first young-adult novel published by Glass Page Books. Photo Credits Polka Dot Images/Polka Dot/Getty Images Suggest an Article Correction Related Searches More Articles How Can Cultural Differences Affect Business Communication? Seven External Factors of Business What Are Internal & External Environmental Factors That Affect Business? The Demographic Variables That Affect a Business Also Viewed How Does the Social Environment Affect a Business? Factors Affecting Economic Development and Growth How Does a Political Trend Affect a Small Business? Environmental Issues That Affect Business Social Factors Affecting Retail Business How Do Interest Rates Affect Businesses? What Is Product Mix Width? What Do Agencies Look for in a Head Shot? What Is Micromarketing & How Might It Have Been Used by Microbreweries? What Is the Law for False Advertisement? Business Ex