‘Helicopter money’ may give Fed the inflation it wants - MarketWatch Latest News Dow 18,124 -88.68 -0.49% Nasdaq 5,245 -5.12 -0.10% S&P 500 2,139 -8.10 -0.38% 12:00 P.M. ET Our phones are distracting us to death — but we can fight back 11:54 A.M. ET Billy Corgan wants to make a smash in pro wrestling 11:50 A.M. ET Where the world’s billionaires are and how they got there 11:34 A.M. ET Manhattan explosion investigated as ‘intentional act’ 9:14 A.M. ET Updated When are the 2016 Emmy awards? 9:11 A.M. ET Updated The really bad money decision millennial homeowners are making 9:11 A.M. ET Updated Chicago Bungalow? Baltimore Row House? L.A. Ranch? The ‘typical’ home varies by city 9:10 A.M. ET Updated Why farmland may become a more popular neighborhood amenity than a golf course 9:10 A.M. ET Updated Even the CEO of Zillow thinks you should ask a real-estate agent what your home is worth 9:09 A.M. ET Updated Why it’s gotten so hard for many people to get a mortgage 9:09 A.M. ET Updated Does having an NFL team in your city boost housing prices? 9:09 A.M. ET Updated Women are better at paying bills, so why is it so hard for them to get a mortgage? 9:08 A.M. ET Updated Relief may be on the horizon for the Sandwich Generation if elder-care leave catches on 9:06 A.M. ET Updated 4 things American parents get dead wrong about raising kids 9:06 A.M. ET Updated Driver’s ed industry is dying even before Tesla and Uber wipe it out completely 9:06 A.M. ET Updated This trait may explain why Danes are the happiest people on earth 9:05 A.M. ET Updated The smart way to start at community college — and make it to a degree 9:05 A.M. ET Updated The nation’s top colleges (at least according to one influential source) 9:05 A.M. ET This is the big national debt problem Congress won’t talk about 9:05 A.M. ET The U.S. economy and the stock market will survive this presidential election Log In Home News Viewer Video Radio, Podcasts First Take Games Portfolio My MarketWatch News Viewer Markets Markets Stream U.S. Europe/Middle East Emerging Markets Asia Canada Columns Market Snapshot Movers & Shakers The Tell Currencies Futures Movers Pre-Market News Tools Earnings Wall Markets Overview IPO Calendar Earnings Calendar Currency Tools Futures Contracts Market Screener Hulbert Interactive Investing Stocks Mutual Funds ETFs Options Bonds Commodities Currencies Futures Hedge Funds/Insider Trades Getting Started MarketWatch Adviser Columns Options Trader Revolution Investing Tools Stock Screener Funds Finder ETF Screener Options Screener IPO Calendar Earnings Calendar More... Trading Deck . Personal Finance 10 Things Big Spender Real Estate Spending & Saving Taxes Columns The Moneyologist Brett Arends Bill Bischoff Amy Hoak Chuck Jaffe Jennifer Openshaw Jennifer Waters Tools Funds Finder Today's Rates Retirement RetireMentors Encore Taxes Retire Here, Not There How-to Guides Social Security Estate Planning Events Columns Robert Powell's Retirement Portfolio Andrea Coombes's Working Retirement Tools Retirement Planner How long will my money last? Economy Federal Reserve Capitol Report Economic Report Columns Darrell Delamaide Irwin Kellner Rex Nutting Tools Economic Calendar Real Estate Location Scouts realtor.com My MarketWatch Watchlist Alerts Games Log In Home Investing Stocks Outside the Box Get email alerts Opinion: ‘Helicopter money’ may give Fed the inflation it wants By John Coumarianos Published: Sept 6, 2016 8:22 a.m. ET Share Investors face a brave new world of central bank intervention Staff Sgt. Jim Varhegyi/U.S. Air Force/Getty Images By JohnCoumarianos Eight years after the financial crisis, the world’s central banks are trying to boost the global economy as much as ever. Though having arguably prevented financial markets from falling into the abyss in 2008 by lowering interest rates, the central banks are adopting increasingly complex interventions, to which the world economy remains stubbornly immune. As contrarian investor Jeremy Grantham put it in an interview with Charlie Rose in 2013, speaking about then Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke: “Bernanke is whipping this donkey that can only grow at 1 percent, this economy, because he thinks it’s a race horse that should be growing at 3. So he is going to keep on whipping this donkey until it either drops dead or turns into a race horse, which is unlikely. And I am betting on dead.” Central bankers’ latest tool for whipping the donkey is “helicopter money,” a phrase coined by economist Milton Friedman that suggests a helicopter dropping currency from the sky and creating instant inflation. Toby Nangle of U.K.-based asset manager Columbia Threadneedle says in an asset allocation note that helicopter money “refers to the situation where a central bank finances the fiscal expenditure of a government. Or in common parlance, the government prints money instead of raising taxes or debt to fund spending.” Barron's buzz: Beware the bear(3:13) Barron's editor Jack Hough discusses the current issue of the magazine, including why top Wall Street strategists are feeling cautious about the year ahead, and the impact of technology on the job market. Plus, why men are shopping more at outlets. By this definition, quantitative easing policies — central bank purchases of debt — in the U.S., U.K., and Japan, already count as helicopter money. But there are newer and stranger versions of a central bank conjuring money to buy debt. First a bank may buy debt specially issued by a government’s Treasury meant only for it and otherwise non-marketable. The special issuance of debt may also be perpetual. This is what Bernanke recommended as an option for Japanese leaders earlier this summer.  An even stranger version of this approach is when the perpetual debt has no coupon, as the Financial Times explains. A zero-coupon bond, of course, pays no interest. It is issued at a discount to face value, and pays the principal plus imputed interest at maturity. All of its value depends on the one payment it will make on the day of maturity. But if a zero coupon bond has no maturity, or is perpetual, the owner never receives a payment, interest or principal. In other words, it’s a worthless security. This allows a government to spend with impunity, since it would owe no interest, or would never have to pay the bond in any way. Zero coupon, no maturity bonds held by the Fed would be some bizarre construct, conferring no benefit on their owner (lender) and no real obligation on the issuer (borrower), but allowing for an almost direct injection of cash into the economy. Presumably, the government could do anything with the cash raised, from embarking on infrastructure projects to issuing checks to the citizenry. An interesting implication of a zero coupon perpetual bond, as commentator Edward Chancellor notes in a recent Breakingviews column, is that a central bank could never sell it if it wanted to quash inflation. After all, who would buy a valueless security? In other words, by not being able to be sold in the open market, the security might deprive the Fed of its inflation-fighting power. Chancellor contends that this move may finally produce the inflation the Fed has sought. (Of course, one may argue that the Fed has produced inflation in financial asset prices already.) The inflation would finally ease the U.S. debt burden by making the dollars it owes less valuable. However, it would also hurt the middle class, which is already under pressure from wage stagnation. As Chancellor puts it, “Households holding cash and other forms of paper wealth would see their capital evaporate. The long-suffering middle classes would become even more stretched –—and almost certainly a great deal angrier.” Welcome to the brave new world of central bank intervention. More from MarketWatch 5 reasons the rest of the world thinks Americans are completely bonkers iOS 10: A Guide to Your iPhone's New Features  Clinton Tries Using ‘Deplorables’ to Her Advantage Data Provided By Today's Interest Rates Mortgage Equity Savings Auto Credit Cards 30 yr fixed Jumbo 4.21% 30 yr fixed 3.49% 15 yr fixed 2.67% 10 yr fixed 2.68% 30 yr fixed refi 3.46% 15 yr fixed refi 2.7% 5/1 ARM 2.94