How Apple’s stock tends to trade around its September event - MarketWatch Latest News Dow 18,124 -88.68 -0.49% Nasdaq 5,245 -5.12 -0.10% S&P 500 2,139 -8.10 -0.38% 12:00 P.M. ET Our phones are distracting us to death — but we can fight back 11:54 A.M. ET Billy Corgan wants to make a smash in pro wrestling 11:50 A.M. ET Where the world’s billionaires are and how they got there 11:34 A.M. ET Manhattan explosion investigated as ‘intentional act’ 9:14 A.M. ET Updated When are the 2016 Emmy awards? 9:11 A.M. ET Updated The really bad money decision millennial homeowners are making 9:11 A.M. ET Updated Chicago Bungalow? Baltimore Row House? L.A. Ranch? The ‘typical’ home varies by city 9:10 A.M. ET Updated Why farmland may become a more popular neighborhood amenity than a golf course 9:10 A.M. ET Updated Even the CEO of Zillow thinks you should ask a real-estate agent what your home is worth 9:09 A.M. ET Updated Why it’s gotten so hard for many people to get a mortgage 9:09 A.M. ET Updated Does having an NFL team in your city boost housing prices? 9:09 A.M. ET Updated Women are better at paying bills, so why is it so hard for them to get a mortgage? 9:08 A.M. ET Updated Relief may be on the horizon for the Sandwich Generation if elder-care leave catches on 9:06 A.M. ET Updated 4 things American parents get dead wrong about raising kids 9:06 A.M. ET Updated Driver’s ed industry is dying even before Tesla and Uber wipe it out completely 9:06 A.M. ET Updated This trait may explain why Danes are the happiest people on earth 9:05 A.M. ET Updated The smart way to start at community college — and make it to a degree 9:05 A.M. ET Updated The nation’s top colleges (at least according to one influential source) 9:05 A.M. ET This is the big national debt problem Congress won’t talk about 9:05 A.M. ET The U.S. economy and the stock market will survive this presidential election Log In Home News Viewer Video Radio, Podcasts First Take Games Portfolio My MarketWatch News Viewer Markets Markets Stream U.S. Europe/Middle East Emerging Markets Asia Canada Columns Market Snapshot Movers & Shakers The Tell Currencies Futures Movers Pre-Market News Tools Earnings Wall Markets Overview IPO Calendar Earnings Calendar Currency Tools Futures Contracts Market Screener Hulbert Interactive Investing Stocks Mutual Funds ETFs Options Bonds Commodities Currencies Futures Hedge Funds/Insider Trades Getting Started MarketWatch Adviser Columns Options Trader Revolution Investing Tools Stock Screener Funds Finder ETF Screener Options Screener IPO Calendar Earnings Calendar More... Trading Deck . Personal Finance 10 Things Big Spender Real Estate Spending & Saving Taxes Columns The Moneyologist Brett Arends Bill Bischoff Amy Hoak Chuck Jaffe Jennifer Openshaw Jennifer Waters Tools Funds Finder Today's Rates Retirement RetireMentors Encore Taxes Retire Here, Not There How-to Guides Social Security Estate Planning Events Columns Robert Powell's Retirement Portfolio Andrea Coombes's Working Retirement Tools Retirement Planner How long will my money last? Economy Federal Reserve Capitol Report Economic Report Columns Darrell Delamaide Irwin Kellner Rex Nutting Tools Economic Calendar Real Estate Location Scouts realtor.com My MarketWatch Watchlist Alerts Games Log In Home Industries Computers/Electronics How Apple’s stock tends to trade around its September event By Jennifer Booton Published: Sept 7, 2016 7:12 a.m. ET Share Apple’s stock has historically risen 4% in the weeks after the event Bloomberg CEO Tim Cook is expected to announce Apple Inc.’s new iPhone 7 on Wednesday. By JenniferBooton Reporter Apple Inc.’s stock historically trades lower leading into its flagship September hardware event, then rebounds leading up to the next-generation iPhone’s actual launch a few weeks later, according to an analysis from UBS. The data, which reflects historical short-term stock performance around Apple’s AAPL, -0.56%   product announcements, shows the stock increased an average of 4% from the early-September event to launch for the iPhone 5, iPhone 6 and iPhone 6s. Apple is expected to announce the iPhone 7 on Sept. 7. The stock then tends to decline again, by an average of 4% two weeks after the device’s launch, UBS said. The iPhone 7 will be available in stores either Sept. 16 or Sept. 23, according to Macrumors. Also See: Why this isn’t a normal iPhone upgrade “Going into the Sept. 7 event, the stock is slightly down from two weeks ago,” said UBS analyst Steven Milunovich, who has a buy rating and $115 12-month price target on the stock. “Barring any surprises, such as an iPhone price cut, we see limited downside risk as investors already anticipate underwhelming iPhone 7 features,” he said. Shares of Apple have declined by just 1.1% in the past two weeks, though they’re up more than 9% in the past three months, outperforming the Dow Jones Industrial Average’s 3.3% increase. Milunovich’s price target implies upside of 7% from Tuesday’s closing price of $107.68. While Milunovich and many other analysts aren’t expecting a huge stock-price surge in fiscal 2017 due to the tough comparisons the iPhone 7 faces against the iPhone 6 two years ago, they’re much more optimistic about fiscal 2018, which is expected to include the launch of a 10th anniversary iPhone. Also Read: Apple’s global wearables share halves to 7% UBS expects Apple to ship roughly 222 million phones in fiscal 2017, with upgrades from existing customers increasing by 17%. For fiscal 2018, however, it expects upgrades to jump by 38%. That’s because upgrade cycles are lengthening, so some customers may wait another year to upgrade after the record surge in buyers during the iPhone 6 cycle in fiscal 2015. At the same time, fiscal 2018 has been referred to by some analysts as a “super cycle,” because they believe the 10th anniversary iPhone will include such significant enhancements that it might encourage iPhone 7 customers to upgrade again next year. “Many of the buyers in fiscal 2015 will likely upgrade products in fiscal 2018 if they do not in fiscal 2017,” said Milunovich. Thus, the weaker fiscal 2017 is, the stronger fiscal 2018 will appear in comparison, he said. More from MarketWatch Our phones are distracting us to death — but we can fight back iOS 10: A Guide to Your iPhone's New Features  Scientists Find Second Tool-Using Genius Crow Jennifer Booton Jennifer Booton is a MarketWatch reporter based in New York. You can follow her on Twitter @jbooton. MarketWatch Partner Center Jennifer Booton Jennifer Booton is a MarketWatch reporter based in New York. You can follow her on Twitter @jbooton. We Want to Hear from You Join the conversation Comment Party Properties Five Los Angeles Homes Excellent for an Emmys Party View More Opinion Board This is your chance to help make MarketWatch even better (and win $1,000) View More Stocks 17 dividend stocks that may rise up to 26% in the next year View More Real Estate 6 Time Capsule Homes Worth Opening Up Now View More MarketWatch Site Index Topics Help Feedback Newsroom Roster Media Archive Premium Products Mobile Company Company Info Code of Conduct Corrections Advertising Media Kit Advertise Locally Reprints & Licensing Broker Center Your Ad Choices Dow Jones Network WSJ.com Barron's Online BigCharts Virtual Stock Exchange Financial News Online WSJ.com Small Business realtor.com Mansion Global Back to Top Copyright ©2016 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy. Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange requirements. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All quotes are in local exchange time. Real time last sale data provided by NASDAQ. More information on NASDAQ traded symbols and their current financial status. Intraday data delayed 15 minutes for Nasdaq, and 20 minutes for other exchanges. S&P/Dow Jones Indices (SM) from Dow Jones & Company, Inc. SEHK intraday data is provided by SIX Financial Information and is at leas