Australian economy solid but global storm clouds are gathering Skip to navigation Skip to content Skip to footer View text version of this page Help using this website - Accessibility statement Menu The Sydney Morning Herald Business Subscribe Login Sign-up Become a SMH member today! Join today and you can easily save your favourite articles, join in the conversation and comment, plus select which news your want direct to your inbox. Create account now! Become a SMH member today! Join today and you can easily save your favourite articles, join in the conversation and comment, plus select which news your want direct to your inbox. Create account now! Home News Sport Business World Politics Comment Property Entertainment Lifestyle Travel Cars Tech Video All News NSW News National Environment Health Education Investigations Good Weekend Photo Galleries Clique Photos Victoria News Queensland ACT News WA News Sport NRL Union AFL Football Cricket Racing Motorsport Basketball Netball Cycling Tennis Scores Golf US Sports Athletics Swimming Boxing Sailing Business News & Views Markets Quotes Workplace Consumer Property Innovation Retail Economy CBD Money Small Business World Race to the White House Migrant Crisis Politics Political News Political Opinion Video Cartoons The Pulse Federal Election 2016 Your Vote Electorate Map Comment Letters Editorials Column 8 Obituaries Peter Hartcher Ross Gittins Jessica Irvine John Birmingham Satire Entertainment Movies TV & Radio Music Books Art Stage What's On in Sydney Video SMH Art Shop Lifestyle Beauty Wellbeing Fashion Shopping Celebrity Home & Style Life Horoscopes Tech News Security Web Culture Innovation Sci-Tech Gadgets Games Smartphone Apps Mobiles IT Pro Video News Sport Business Entertainment Lifestyle Travel Property Cars Food Exec Style Parenting Search Site News & Views Markets Quotes Workplace Consumer Property Innovation Retail Economy CBD Money Small Biz Home Business Economy June 30 2016 Save Print Australian economy solid but global storm clouds are gathering Mark Mulligan Contact via Email Follow on Twitter Show comments facebook SHARE twitter TWEET email google-plus linkedin reddit More As the 2015-16 financial year draws to a close, it's worth reflecting on both the resilience of the Australian economy as well as the storm clouds that are gathering. Because just as June 30 officially marks 25 fiscal years of uninterrupted growth for the country, Australia will still have to wrestle over the next 12 months with the uncertainty of post-Brexit Europe, the drag from a slower-growing China, and the potentially catastrophic fallout from a politically and economically shaky United States.  Don't Play Up Next Video duration 03:29 M&A activity slows after bumper 2015 Cancel Replay Replay Video Icon Player help icon More Markets Videos Previous slide Next slide Video duration 03:29 M&A activity slows after bumper 2015 Video duration 01:24 Brexit continues to rattle world markets Video duration 01:26 Why an LNP win could boost GrainCorp Video duration 00:45 Growth vs yield stocks Video duration 01:29 Mining stocks worth a short-term hold Video duration 00:55 Bank stocks and bullish investors Video duration 01:07 US Federal Reserve rate hikes buoy markets Video duration 00:58 China's crackdown stings Blackmores, a2, Bellamy's More videos M&A activity slows after bumper 2015 The Australian Financial Review and KPMG roundtable discusses the decline in M&A activity in response to global market volatility. The world's central banks, which helped markets and households steady after the ravages of the global financial crisis, are fast running out of arsenal. Reference interest rates are at, below or just above zero across much of the advanced world, with the central banks of Japan and Europe supplementing this by buying bonds from banks and other big fixed-income investors. Related Content ASX set for 'pockets of outperformance' How the $A became rock solid This has helped squeeze implied returns on bonds - yields drop as demand-driven prices rise - to below zero in many cases. In Germany, the benchmark 10-year bund yield recently dropped below zero for the first time ever; in Australia, the corresponding government bond dipped below 2 per cent for the first time in history. Advertisement So if central banks are in effect penalising lenders for not extending credit, why haven't companies and consumers filled their boots with cash and gone on a spending spree? Supply outstripping demand The answer, according to economists, is complex and nuanced. Protesters unhappy with the shock result of the UK referendum on EU membership. Fallout from the vote is just one of many global challenges. Photo: Getty Images In general, though, with the globalised supply of many commodities, goods and services outstripping demand, there is little incentive for companies to invest in new capacity. Instead, they are using cheap credit to buy back their own shares or reward investors with higher dividends. GDP is expanding, but real net national income has been depressed by falling commodity prices. Photo: ABS, ANZ This helps explain the popularity of equity investing over the past year, although the fact that most of the world's stock indices are now below where they were 12 months ago attests more to companies' struggle to find real revenue - known as top-line growth - amid oversupply and subdued consumer spending. Australia's S&P/ASX 200, for example, ended the year down 4.1 per cent. That consumers remain cautious despite all the central bank stimulus owes a lot to low wage growth, job insecurity and, in some countries, over-indebtedness. Consumer spending patchy In Australia, where consumer spending has also been patchy and business investment dire, this global picture is best reflected in what is called real net national disposable income, which measures residents' share of the proceeds of the country's productive output.  The fact that this fell 1.3 per cent between the end of March last year and the same time this year, while gross domestic product expanded 3.1 per cent, shows that Australian governments, companies and households are producing more but receiving less. This, in turn, reflects the continued fall in commodity prices and government revenues and the share of profits and investment returns that go abroad.   Wages, too, have been held down by globalisation, digital disruption and the shift from high-paying mining and manufacturing jobs to low-paying, and often casual, positions in healthcare, hospitality and tourism. While Australia's official unemployment rate has held steady at 5.7 per cent for the past three months, most of the jobs created these days are part-time. 'Lot of confusion' "There is a lot of confusion about the Australian economy because production is strong but incomes are weak,"  AlphaBeta.economist Andrew Charlton said a month ago. "That's why we can simultaneously have record export growth with falling company profits, strong employment growth with low wages, and strong GDP growth with a crippled budget deficit." Low wages and prices are a global phenomenon, which means the disinflation and deflation that have bedevilled most the of developed world in recent years has finally washed up on Australian shores. A shock below-forecast first-quarter consumer price index forced the Reserve Bank of Australia to cut the cash rate to 1.75 per cent in May, and most economists expect it to do the same in August, after the second-quarter figures confirm the trend. This is likely to jar with the RBA, says Commonwealth Bank's chief economist Michael Blythe, as it has appeared relatively happy with the the shape of the jobs market, the economy's transition away from resource-related investment to a broader mix of economic activity, and the related adjustment of the Australian dollar to falling commodity prices  Low inflation "If you just listen to this story, you'd be thinking 'well, there's no chance of a rate cut coming through, because the economy doesn't really need it'," said Blythe on Thursday. "But we have seen a shift in focus coming through from the Reserve Bank: while the real economy is fine, the