Once again, the rosy view on U.S. economy wilts - MarketWatch Latest News Dow 18,124 -88.68 -0.49% Nasdaq 5,245 -5.12 -0.10% S&P 500 2,139 -8.10 -0.38% 2:59 P.M. ET New York Explosion: Mayor de Blasio, Police Commisisoner Give Updates 2:58 P.M. ET Here are the first-time Emmy nominees to watch this year 2:49 P.M. ET Updated Bomb outside empty building caused Manhattan explosion 2:21 P.M. ET Updated Central bank developments are only game in town for markets 2:05 P.M. ET How Donald Trump gets away with birther conspiracy and other lies 1:45 P.M. ET Syria cease-fire teeters on verge of collapse 1:42 P.M. ET New auto prices no longer going up as sales level off 1:13 P.M. ET Clinton, Trump Comment on New York City Explosion 1:01 P.M. ET Updated Olive Garden’s ‘pasta passes’ selling on eBay for as much as $4,500 12:54 P.M. ET Updated ‘The Points Guy’ has 30 credit cards and a credit score of 805. He let us in on his secrets 12:51 P.M. ET Updated Why that scuzzy ATM in the back of your favorite dive bar is about to disappear 12:38 P.M. ET Updated 22,000 years of climate change, captured by a cartoonist 12:37 P.M. ET Updated Dow 100,000? It could happen, says one of the stock market’s biggest bears 12:36 P.M. ET Updated Where the world’s billionaires are and how they got there 12:36 P.M. ET Updated Upgrading your home gadgets? How about a $6,400 toilet or door that unlocks with a secret knock 12:06 P.M. ET This hot hoodie maker thinks leggings will be even bigger 12:03 P.M. ET Once again, the rosy view on U.S. economy wilts 12:00 P.M. ET Our phones are distracting us to death — but we can fight back 11:54 A.M. ET Billy Corgan wants to make a smash in pro wrestling 9:14 A.M. ET Updated When are the 2016 Emmy awards? Log In Home News Viewer Video Radio, Podcasts First Take Games Portfolio My MarketWatch News Viewer Markets Markets Stream U.S. Europe/Middle East Emerging Markets Asia Canada Columns Market Snapshot Movers & Shakers The Tell Currencies Futures Movers Pre-Market News Tools Earnings Wall Markets Overview IPO Calendar Earnings Calendar Currency Tools Futures Contracts Market Screener Hulbert Interactive Investing Stocks Mutual Funds ETFs Options Bonds Commodities Currencies Futures Hedge Funds/Insider Trades Getting Started MarketWatch Adviser Columns Options Trader Revolution Investing Tools Stock Screener Funds Finder ETF Screener Options Screener IPO Calendar Earnings Calendar More... Trading Deck . Personal Finance 10 Things Big Spender Real Estate Spending & Saving Taxes Columns The Moneyologist Brett Arends Bill Bischoff Amy Hoak Chuck Jaffe Jennifer Openshaw Jennifer Waters Tools Funds Finder Today's Rates Retirement RetireMentors Encore Taxes Retire Here, Not There How-to Guides Social Security Estate Planning Events Columns Robert Powell's Retirement Portfolio Andrea Coombes's Working Retirement Tools Retirement Planner How long will my money last? Economy Federal Reserve Capitol Report Economic Report Columns Darrell Delamaide Irwin Kellner Rex Nutting Tools Economic Calendar Real Estate Location Scouts realtor.com My MarketWatch Watchlist Alerts Games Log In Home Economy & Politics Economic Preview Get email alerts Once again, the rosy view on U.S. economy wilts By Jeffry Bartash Published: Sept 18, 2016 12:03 p.m. ET Share Federal Reserve unlikely to raise rates after disappointing data By JeffryBartash Reporter Shutterstock A string of disappointing results on the U.S. economy in the past several weeks has all but ensured that interest rates will remain ultra-low for consumers and businesses for another few months. Federal Reserve bigwigs meet this week to debate when to raise a key short-term U.S. interest rate. The outcome, however, is not expected to be a cliff-hanger. Wall Street investors only see a 15% chance that the Fed will hike rates. The final nail in the proverbial coffin may have come with a decline in retail sales and manufactured goods in August, reflecting persistent caution on the part of consumers and businesses. Also read: Here’s how the Fed’s doves and hawks will use the new inflation and sales data “The August data have nearly run the table to the disappointing side,” said Douglas Porter, chief economist of BMO Financial Group. That’s not to say the economy is weak or that it would tank if the Fed gently nudged rates higher. After all, the benchmark fed funds rate sits near a modern historic low that ranges from 0.25% to 0.50%. Consumer and corporate loans are sensitive to changes in the fed funds rate. All it means is the economy is not so strong that higher rates are a foregone conclusion. While consumers are spending at a moderate pace, businesses have scaled back investment amid a decline in profits. Energy producers, manufacturers and exporters have been particularly hard hit. With so many key segments of the U.S. struggling, growth is like to average less than 2% in 2016, even if the economy speeds up in the final four months. A small slice of economic bellwethers this week probably won’t alter the outlook. Housing starts, or new home construction, has been gradually increasing and so have sales of previously owned homes. The housing market is one of the strongest parts of the economy right now. Yet sales and construction usually slow after kids go back to school as most families try to settle in before the new academic year. Rising prices and a shortage of available properties have also constrained sales even though more families are interested in buying a home. The two-day meeting of the Fed, on Tuesday and Wednesday, will attract virtually all the attention on Wall Street this week. After the meeting, Chairwoman Janet Yellen could offer more clues on when the Fed will raise rates in her quarterly press conference. For now, the Fed remains divided. Some senior officials believe the odds of the economy underperforming are much greater than the chances of it overheating. Certainly that’s been the pattern since the U.S. exited the Great Recession in the middle of 2009. The rosier view takes into account a 4.9% unemployment rate, rising incomes and higher household wealth to support the notion that consumers will continue to carry the economy. The past two years has seen the biggest increase in consumer spending since before the recession. Even that bit of good news is not entirely positive. Soaring rents and higher health-care costs are taking a bigger bite out of household incomes, according to an index that tracks the cost of living. Rents are rising at the fastest pace since 2008 and medical expenses posted the biggest increase in August since 1984. More from MarketWatch Pastor Cuts Off Trump as Speech Turns Political 5 reasons the rest of the world thinks Americans are completely bonkers Our phones are distracting us to death — but we can fight back Related Topics U.S. Economy Federal Reserve Housing Indicators Employment Inflation Jeffry Bartash Jeffry Bartash is a reporter for MarketWatch in Washington. MarketWatch Partner Center Jeffry Bartash Jeffry Bartash is a reporter for MarketWatch in Washington. We Want to Hear from You Join the conversation Comment Party Properties Five Los Angeles Homes Excellent for an Emmys Party View More Opinion Board This is your chance to help make MarketWatch even better (and win $1,000) View More Stocks 17 dividend stocks that may rise up to 26% in the next year View More Real Estate 6 Time Capsule Homes Worth Opening Up Now View More MarketWatch Site Index Topics Help Feedback Newsroom Roster Media Archive Premium Products Mobile Company Company Info Code of Conduct Corrections Advertising Media Kit Advertise Locally Reprints & Licensing Broker Center Your Ad Choices Dow Jones Network WSJ.com Barron's Online BigCharts Virtual Stock Exchange Financial News Online WSJ.com Small Business realtor.com Mansion Global Back to Top Copyright ©2016 MarketWatch, Inc. All rights reserved. By using this site you agree to the Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, and Cookie Policy. Intraday Data provided by SIX Financial Information and subject to terms of use. Historical and current end-of-day data provided by SIX Financial Information. Intraday data delayed per exchange 