Tourism in Brussels, Belgium - Europe's Best Destinations Welcome to the official Europe's Best Destinations website Explore Europe Best destinations 2016 Christmas markets Ski Resorts Romantic destinations Hidden gems Best beaches Beautiful bridges Best National Parks Best Shopping Centers More inspiration Destinations Plan your stay Book your flight Compare low cost flights to Europe countries then book your airline tickets directly by clicking through to agency and airline sites. Find your hotel Compare all Europe hotel deals at once. Up to 80% off. View maps, photos and guest reviews. Our tool compare 1000+ travel sites. Tours & Activities Discover Europe’s biggest collection of things to do and guided tours. Whatever you want to do you’ll find it here. Best price guarantee ! Menu Trending searches : Best beaches Zadar Ski resorts Porto Hotels Christmas 2016 Amsterdam Romantic Milan Welcome to ... the Dordogne Valley in France... An ideal destination for nature lovers ! Discover Best Christmas markets 2016 Dive into our selection of the best Christmas markets in Europe. Discover Porto Travel Guide The colourful streets of Porto and the Portuguese sweetness of life are waiting for you ! Discover ❤ Join us on : Home Destinations Aachen Aberdeen Aix-en-Provence Aix-Les-Bains Alicante Algarve Amsterdam Antibes Antwerp Athens Arles Avignon Azores Barcelona Basel Belfast Belgrade Bergen Berlin Biarritz Bielefeld Bilbao Birmingham Bologna Bolzano Bonn Bordeaux Bratislava Bristol Brno Brussels Budapest Cadiz Cannes Cesis Colmar Cologne Copenhagen Cordoba Dijon Dordogne Valley Dublin Dresden Dubrovnik Duisburg Dusseldorf Edinburgh Florence Frankfurt Gdansk Geneva Gijon Glasgow Gothenburg Graz Hamburg Hannover Helsinki Innsbruck Inverness Istanbul Istria Kaunas Kotor Krakow Krk Lausanne Le Havre Leipzig Liepaja Lille Linz Lisbon Ljubljana Locarno London Lourdes Lucerne Luxembourg Madeira Madrid Malaga Malta Manchester Marseille Metz Miskolc Milan Montreux Montpellier Mont Saint-Michel Mullerthal Munich Nantes Nice Nicosia Novi Sad Nuremberg Opatija Oslo Oxford Palermo Palma de Mallorca Paris Pisa Plovdiv Porto Poznan Prague Reykjavik Riga Rijeka Rome Rotterdam Rouen Sainte Maxime Saint-Tropez Salzburg San Sebastian Sarejevo Sintra Sibenik Skopje Sorrento Split Stari Grad Stirling Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tampere The Hague Thessaloniki Toulouse Valencia Venice Ventspils Vilnius Vienna Vicenza Warsaw Wroclaw York Zadar Zagreb Best of Europe European Best Destinations 2016 Europe Best Destinations 2015 Best beaches in Europe 2015 2014 Best hidden gems in Europe Best summer music festivals Best Romantic Destinations in Europe Best destinations to celebrate new year's eve in Europe Best Christmas City Breaks in Europe Best wine destinations in Europe Best castles in Europe Best thermal destinations in Europe Most beautiful landscapes in Europe Best amusement parks in Europe Best celebrities destinations Best destinations for sales in Europe Portugal Quiz Europe Vs the world Beautiful piers in Europe Best events in Europe Best trendy events in Europe Best beach huts in Europe Best amazing events in Europe Best museums in Europe Best shopping centers in Europe Best Royal Family Palaces Best destinations to celebrate Chinese New Year in Europe Extreme points of Europe Best lighthouses in Europe Best Gay pride in Europe Most beautiful bridges in Europe Best greenhouses in Europe Best amazing monuments in Europe Best abandoned places in Europe Best city Parks in Europe Best flea markets in Europe Best funiculars in Europe Best Wellness Hotels in Europe Best national parks in Europe Seven Wonders of Europe Best subway stations in Europe Best railway stations in Europe Best hotel's suites in Europe Best gay friendly hotels in Europe Best pools in Europe Europe Best Destinations 2014 Europe Best Destinations 2013 Christmas markets European Best Christmas markets 2015 Best Christmas destinations in Europe Christmas in Germany Christmas in the United Kingdom Christmas in France Aachen Antwerp Avignon Baden-Baden Barcelona Basel Bath Berlin Bern Birmingham Braunschweig Brixen Brussels Budapest Colmar Cologne Dordrecht Dresden Dubrovnik Dusseldorf Ghent Glasgow Graz Hasselt Helsinki Innsbruck Leeds Leipzig Leuven Liege Lille London Lucerne Madrid Manchester Mulhouse Newcastle Nuremberg Odense Oxford Paris Prague Rothenburg Salzburg St Gallen Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tallinn Vienna Vilnius Worms Zagreb Europe's best Christmas markets 2014 Ski European Best Ski Resorts 2015 Europe's best ski resorts 2014 AlpedHuez Åre Baqueira Beret Courchevel Engadin Samnaun Gstaad Ischgl Kitzbühel La Plagne Les Arcs Saalbach-Hinterglemm Saint François Longchamp Saint-Gervais-Mont-Blanc Sölden Skiwelt Wilder Kaiser - Brixental Val Thorens Travel Guide Porto Things to do Mercado do Bolhao market Porto Ribeira and Miragaia World of Discoveries Porto Fondation Serralves Porto Electrico Porto old tram Torre dos Clerigos Tower Porto Se Catedral Porto Rua Santa Catarina Porto Funicular dos Guindais Porto Miradouro da Victoria Porto Miradouro da Serra do Pilar Teleferico de Gaia Cable Car Sao Bento Train Station Jardim do Palacio de Cristal Porto Parque da Cidade Porto Passeio dos Clerigos Porto Foz do Douro Porto Cais de Gaia Porto Belo Mercado Livraria Lello Bookshop Porto Miguel Bombarda, Porto's creators area A Vida Portuguesa Porto Cafe Majestic Porto Casa da Musica Porto Best beaches in Porto and Gaia Best bars and restaurants in Porto Six Bridges Cruise Porto Porto Helicopter tour Classico Porto Tour The Region Aveiro Braga Bom Jesus de Braga Sameiro Guimaraes Hotels Pousada Mosteiro de Guimaraes NHotel Collection Porto Batalha Grande Hotel do Porto The Yeatman Hotel Porto Porto InterContinental Hotel Pestana Palacio do Freixo Porto Flattered Porto Apartements Aparthotel Oporto Sol Porto Sense Apartments Flights Travel tips Gallery Bordeaux Top things to do in Bordeaux Hidden Bordeaux Bay of Arcachon Saint-Emilion Vineyards Plan your stay in Bordeaux Zagreb and Croatia Dolac market Cathedral Marijina Usnesenja Botanical Garden Archeological Museum Ilica Street Maksimir Park Ban Jelacic Square Zagreb's Funicular Green horseshoe Upper town old part of Zagreb Palace Hotel Jarun Lake Museum of broken relationships Lotrscak tower Kino Europa Cafe Museum of Contemporary Art Peter Preradovica's Square Kino Europa Shop Mirogoj Cemetery Avenue Mall Oktogon Gallery Hinterland Tkalciceva street Agava Restaurant Slejme Zadar's sunset Plitivice Lakes Boutique Hostel Forum Ugljan island City of Zadar Petcrane beach St Anastasia Bell Tower Nin Luka beach Tvrdava Sv. Mihovil Pula Arena City Centre Pula Park Plaza Histria Ribarska Koliba Restaurant Locanda Blu Restaurant Hotel Lone Rovinj Motovun Mulini Beach Discover Opatija Istanbul Ortaköy Mosque Alleyways of Ortaköy Bosphorus Five Stars Rumelian Castle Çengelköy İskelesi Sumahan on the Water Restaurant Tapasuma Maiden’s Tower Cruise over the Bosphorus Beylerbeyi Palace Grand Bazaar Blue Mosque Hagia Sophia Spice market Galata Bridge restaurants Street food Gulhane Park Topkapi Palace Galata Bridge Eyüp Eyüp Sultan Mosque Eyüp Market Cafe Pierre Loti Taksim Square Cafe francais Urban Suites Swissotel Bosphorus Kanyon shopping mall Barbaros Parki Istiklal Caddesi Perspectives on Istanbul Galata Tower Galata Tower Restaurant Çankaya Caddesi Princes Islands Abandoned building Panorama Buyukada Madeira Mercado dos Lavradores Funchal old town Cathedral of Funchal Cable car to Monte Blandy's wine lodge Venda Velha Madeira Tradicional Museu De Arte Contemporanea Boat trip in Santa Maria de Colombo Igreja do Colegio Faja dos Padres Faja dos Padres Hotel & restaurant Monte Palace Tropical Garden Igreja Da Nossa Senhora do Monte Camara de Lobos Restaurante do Forte Ristorante Villa Cipriani Il Gallo d’Oro Carros Cestos The Vine Hotel Reid's Palace Cabo Girao Pico do Ariero Belvedere Boca da Encumeada Sao Vicente Caves Seixal waterfall Santana houses Madeira Jeep Tour Madeira Theme Park Ribeiro Frio - Balcões Paul da Serra Porto Moniz Quinta do Furao Restaurant Quinta do Furao Hotel Miradouro da Portela Porto Santo Line Pico do Castelo Beaches of Porto Santo City center of Porto Santo Pier of Porto Santo Porto Santo Golf Porto Santo Hotel & Spa Porto Santo beach restaurant Hotels Flights About Contact Press Download Membership Tourism in Brussels Belgium Hotels in Brussels Get Driving Directions from: To: Calculate Print Directions Reset route Brussels, the capital of 500 million Europeans, is waiting to share its treasures and talents with you and to tell you its story. It has an ability to adapt to its visitors: no matter when you come, there’s always something happening here; no matter how long you stay, there are several different ways to experience Brussels, each with some brilliant surprises in store. A multicoloured heritage of the most diverse styles, a contagious creativity tinged with surrealism and humour, a sociable and epicurean art de vivre. Order of the day: fashion and design, comic strip, chocolate, beer, music and surrealism, sociability and more than 100 museums, high-tech and surprising meeting rooms and a whole constellation of hotels.   Brussels, capital of the kingdom of Belgium is also the capital of Europe.   A destination that's easy to reach and reasonable prices that won't strain its visitors' pockets, regardless of age. This cosmopolitan city that loves good food lives life its way and expresses itself in a style very much its own: sometimes rebellious and mischievous, sometimes thoughtful and composed, but always very likeable. Despite its European dimension and despite all the different languages spoken on the corner of every street, Brussels is still inspired by a very "village-like" spirit.   Of course, it's well known for its Grand-Place, its Atomium, its Manneken-Pis, its Gueuze and its Kriek, its waffles and its chocolates... (don't miss them!). But, just one tip: take the time, too, to soak up the very special atmosphere of its many different districts. Take a stroll to Rue Dansaert, Halles Saint-Géry and Place Sainte-Catherine. Head for Saint-Boniface, Châtelain or Flagey... You'll discover a Brussels that's in the spirit of the times, a capital that's relaxed and comfortable, as much in its history as in its present-day reality. Very fashionable. Very designer. Very creative. In other words, to put it in a nutshell, just relish Brussels, a fine and beautiful city to explore and discover...   See you soon!   Best hotels in Brussels Ibis Hotel Brussels Centre Ste Catherine from €51 Metropole Hotel Brussels from €69 Radisson Blu Royal Hotel Brussels from €102 Rocco Forte Hotel Amigo from €178 Thon Hotel EU from €74 The Hotel Brussels from €108 More hotels Brussels image gallery Tours & Activities in Brussels more activities Top things to do in Brussels City Hall of Brussels Brussels Town Hall is one of Belgium's finest civic buildings. Not only because of the numerous sculptures adorning its walls, but also because of its perfect proportions and the incomparable beauty of its tower, the spire of which is topped by the archangel Saint-Michael. Brussels laid the foundation stone of the magnificent Gothic edifice in the spring of 1402.   ©Sebastien Beun Atomium Unmistakable symbol of Brussels and Belgium and unique feat in the history of architecture: the Atomium is today the most popular attraction in the Capital of Europe. Built for the 1958 World Exhibition, the Atomium is shaped on the model of an elementary iron crystal enlarged 165 billion times. Beyond surreal walks through tubes and spheres, the Atomium houses a permanent exhibition about its history as well temporary exhibitions for a broad public (sciences, design, society). ©Calvin YC MIM Musical Instruments Museum This excellent museum occupies the old Art Nouveau buildings of the Old England stores (3000m2 of exhibition space) and is one of the biggest collection of instruments in the world. The four exhibition levels display nearly 1200 instruments (from the 7000 items of the entire collection), antique or contemporary, in a stage set blending the acoustic and visual aspects and integrating technological tools such as interactive terminals and sound spaces. ©Henk Bekker The Marolles The Marolles has always welcomed many socially fragile inhabitants. Today, the district is undergoing further changes as wealthier people are moving in, attracted by the luxury shops of the nearby Sablon district and the chance to renovate old buildings of character, resulting in a new set of challenges. This tour shows some of the district's hidden gems and tries to explain the issues confronting today's residents. Duration: 1h30 ou 2h30. ©Luc de Leeuw Galeries Royales Saint Hubert This covered gallery, with glittering shops on both sides, was built in 1846-47 in accordance with plans drawn up by the architect J.P. Cluysenaer. The building of these galleries was a "first in Europe". (Galerie de la Reine, Galerie du Roi, Galerie des Princes).   ©Francisco Anzola Video of Brussels Destinations Brussels Best of Europe Best Destinations 2016 Best ski resorts in Europe Best Christmas markets Best beaches in Europe Cheap hotel deals in Europe Cheap flights to Europe European Best Destinations About us Contact us Membership E-tourism Barometer Download Press Connect with us Subscribe to discover latest travel inspiration, tips and deals from European Best Destinations. Loading Explore Europe Best amusements parks Roller coaster, ghost train, big wheel... Most amazing monuments The strangest & most amazing monuments in Europe. Abandoned places The most amazing abandoned places in Europe. Most beautiful beaches A selection of the best beaches in Europe. Beautiful beach huts The most beautiful beach huts of the European coastline. The 15 best bridges Discover the most beautiful bridges in Europe. Best trendy events Take part to the most exclusive events in Europe. Best city parks Europe offers beautiful parks for your enjoyment. Most beautiful castles Visiting these castles is like diving into our history. Best events Discover our selection of the top events in Europe. Extreme points Beautiful destinations that will help you to better understand Europe. Summer music festivals Be prepared to live unique experiences ! Best flea markets Discover the most amazing flea markets in Europe. Best funiculars Top funiculars that bring you to the most beautiful places in Europe. Gay friendly places Be yourself in the best gay friendly destinations in Europe. Beautiful greenhouses Top greenhouses which are as beautiful as the plants they contain. Beautiful landscapes Travel far away while staying in Europe. Best hidden gems The finest unknown destinations in Europe. Beautiful lighthouses Discover a selection of the not to be missed lighthouses in Europe. Best museums Discover the most impressive museums in Europe. Best national parks Best national parks that are as green as beautiful ! New Year's Eve Discover the best destinations to celebrate New Year in Europe. Beautiful piers Discover the most beautiful piers in Europe. Romantic destinations Discover the best romantic destinations in Europe. Best Royal Palaces The top luxurious castles of the Royal Families. Best subway stations The most incredible subway stations in Europe. Best shopping centers Discover the “temples of shopping” in Europe ! Railway stations Take your ticket for the best railway stations ! Wine destinations Wine tells the whole story of a region. Best ski resorts The 10 best ski resorts in Europe selected by travellers. Best destinations 2016 The 15 best places to visit selected by travellers. Christmas destinations Best Christmas holiday destinations in Europe. Christmas Markets The best Christmas markets selected by travellers. Sales destinations You want to do shopping at the best prices ? Most beautiful pools The most amazing swimming pools in Europe. Wellness hotels Take care of yourself in the most beautiful Wellness hotels. Best hotel's suites The most luxurious and gorgeous hotel suites in Europe. Seven wonders So many treasures are waiting for you to discover them. Join Us On facebook twitter Google + pinterest instagram Discover Europe's best destinations Colmar Colmar is really a condensed version of the Alsace region. London You can't fail to be excited by London's amazing attractions. Berlin Berlin projects itself as a young, dynamic & cosmopolitan city. Azores Discover the charm of these nine charismatic islands. Rome A region with a great deal to offer: history, nature, good food... Prague Discover one of the most beautiful cities in the world! Algarve A place where the climate is mild & sunny all year round! Lisbon There are so many things to see and do in Lisbon! Madeira Islands Discover these enchanted islands… happiness is so near! Porto The colourful streets of Porto are waiting for you! Paris Paris is one of the world’s few really legendary capitals. Milan Milan is the hub of Italian culture, music, media & sports. Madrid The Spanish capital makes everyone feel right at home. Zagreb A large city which managed to stay romantic and safe. Zadar Welcome to Zadar European best destination 2016 ! Brussels Brussels, the capital of 500 million Europeans, is waiting for you. Bordeaux A fascinating town, rich in history, culture and gastronomy. Barcelona A perfect destination for culture, leisure, shopping, nightlife... Athens It is not only an open-air museum but also a contemporary metropolis. Amsterdam Discover five things you probably didn't know about the city. Stari Grad Stari Grad is located in the sunniest island in the Adriatic. Krk Island One of the most attractive tourist destinations in Croatia Metz Metz is the perfect sized town for a short break. San Sebastian San Sebastian is a wonderful city to get lost in and explore. Sainte-Maxime Sainte-Maxime is ideally located in the heart of the Saint-Tropez bay. Plovdiv Plovdiv is a leading cultural, religious, wine and shopping destination. Novi Sad Novi Sad, the city on the Danube, is the experience you must not miss. Nantes A vibrant & young metropolis often rewarded for its top-quality of life. Mullerthal Welcome in the Mullerthal Region – Luxembourg’s Little Switzerland. Montpellier Montpellier is an exceptional destination, rich in character. Miskolc There are numerous historical and cultural values hiding in the city. Le Havre Rewarded by the Unesco for its architecture and modernity. Kotor A cultural and natural world heritage site located in Montenegro. Aix-les-Bains A lovely destination nestles beside the largest natural lake in France. Best hidden gems The finest unknown destinations in Europe. Best national parks Best national parks that are as green as beautiful ! New Year's Eve Discover the best destinations to celebrate New Year in Europe. Romantic destinations Discover the best romantic destinations in Europe. Wine destinations Wine is a product like no other, it tells the whole story of a region. Best destinations 2016 The 15 best places to visit selected by travellers. Christmas destinations Best Christmas holiday destinations in Europe. Sales destinations You want to do shopping at the best prices ? Privacy Policy | Sitemap Log out | Edit   Home Destinations Aachen Aberdeen Aix-en-Provence Aix-Les-Bains Alicante Algarve Amsterdam Antibes Antwerp Athens Arles Avignon Azores Barcelona Basel Belfast Belgrade Bergen Berlin Biarritz Bielefeld Bilbao Birmingham Bologna Bolzano Bonn Bordeaux Bratislava Bristol Brno Brussels Budapest Cadiz Cannes Cesis Colmar Cologne Copenhagen Cordoba Dijon Dordogne Valley Dublin Dresden Dubrovnik Duisburg Dusseldorf Edinburgh Florence Frankfurt Gdansk Geneva Gijon Glasgow Gothenburg Graz Hamburg Hannover Helsinki Innsbruck Inverness Istanbul Istria Kaunas Kotor Krakow Krk Lausanne Le Havre Leipzig Liepaja Lille Linz Lisbon Ljubljana Locarno London Lourdes Lucerne Luxembourg Madeira Madrid Malaga Malta Manchester Marseille Metz Miskolc Milan Montreux Montpellier Mont Saint-Michel Mullerthal Munich Nantes Nice Nicosia Novi Sad Nuremberg Opatija Oslo Oxford Palermo Palma de Mallorca Paris Pisa Plovdiv Porto Poznan Prague Reykjavik Riga Rijeka Rome Rotterdam Rouen Sainte Maxime Saint-Tropez Salzburg San Sebastian Sarejevo Sintra Sibenik Skopje Sorrento Split Stari Grad Stirling Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tampere The Hague Thessaloniki Toulouse Valencia Venice Ventspils Vilnius Vienna Vicenza Warsaw Wroclaw York Zadar Zagreb Best of Europe European Best Destinations 2016 Europe Best Destinations 2015 Best beaches in Europe 2015 2014 Best hidden gems in Europe Best summer music festivals Best Romantic Destinations in Europe Best destinations to celebrate new year's eve in Europe Best Christmas City Breaks in Europe Best wine destinations in Europe Best castles in Europe Best thermal destinations in Europe Most beautiful landscapes in Europe Best amusement parks in Europe Best celebrities destinations Best destinations for sales in Europe Portugal Quiz Europe Vs the world Beautiful piers in Europe Best events in Europe Best trendy events in Europe Best beach huts in Europe Best amazing events in Europe Best museums in Europe Best shopping centers in Europe Best Royal Family Palaces Best destinations to celebrate Chinese New Year in Europe Extreme points of Europe Best lighthouses in Europe Best Gay pride in Europe Most beautiful bridges in Europe Best greenhouses in Europe Best amazing monuments in Europe Best abandoned places in Europe Best city Parks in Europe Best flea markets in Europe Best funiculars in Europe Best Wellness Hotels in Europe Best national parks in Europe Seven Wonders of Europe Best subway stations in Europe Best railway stations in Europe Best hotel's suites in Europe Best gay friendly hotels in Europe Best pools in Europe Europe Best Destinations 2014 Europe Best Destinations 2013 Christmas markets European Best Christmas markets 2015 Best Christmas destinations in Europe Christmas in Germany Christmas in the United Kingdom Christmas in France Aachen Antwerp Avignon Baden-Baden Barcelona Basel Bath Berlin Bern Birmingham Braunschweig Brixen Brussels Budapest Colmar Cologne Dordrecht Dresden Dubrovnik Dusseldorf Ghent Glasgow Graz Hasselt Helsinki Innsbruck Leeds Leipzig Leuven Liege Lille London Lucerne Madrid Manchester Mulhouse Newcastle Nuremberg Odense Oxford Paris Prague Rothenburg Salzburg St Gallen Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tallinn Vienna Vilnius Worms Zagreb Europe's best Christmas markets 2014 Ski European Best Ski Resorts 2015 Europe's best ski resorts 2014 AlpedHuez Åre Baqueira Beret Courchevel Engadin Samnaun Gstaad Ischgl Kitzbühel La Plagne Les Arcs Saalbach-Hinterglemm Saint François Longchamp Saint-Gervais-Mont-Blanc Sölden Skiwelt Wilder Kaiser - Brixental Val Thorens Travel Guide Porto Things to do Mercado do Bolhao market Porto Ribeira and Miragaia World of Discoveries Porto Fondation Serralves Porto Electrico Porto old tram Torre dos Clerigos Tower Porto Se Catedral Porto Rua Santa Catarina Porto Funicular dos Guindais Porto Miradouro da Victoria Porto Miradouro da Serra do Pilar Teleferico de Gaia Cable Car Sao Bento Train Station Jardim do Palacio de Cristal Porto Parque da Cidade Porto Passeio dos Clerigos Porto Foz do Douro Porto Cais de Gaia Porto Belo Mercado Livraria Lello Bookshop Porto Miguel Bombarda, Porto's creators area A Vida Portuguesa Porto Cafe Majestic Porto Casa da Musica Porto Best beaches in Porto and Gaia Best bars and restaurants in Porto Six Bridges Cruise Porto Porto Helicopter tour Classico Porto Tour The Region Aveiro Braga Bom Jesus de Braga Sameiro Guimaraes Hotels Pousada Mosteiro de Guimaraes NHotel Collection Porto Batalha Grande Hotel do Porto The Yeatman Hotel Porto Porto InterContinental Hotel Pestana Palacio do Freixo Porto Flattered Porto Apartements Aparthotel Oporto Sol Porto Sense Apartments Flights Travel tips Gallery Bordeaux Top things to do in Bordeaux Hidden Bordeaux Bay of Arcachon Saint-Emilion Vineyards Plan your stay in Bordeaux Zagreb and Croatia Dolac market Cathedral Marijina Usnesenja Botanical Garden Archeological Museum Ilica Street Maksimir Park Ban Jelacic Square Zagreb's Funicular Green horseshoe Upper town old part of Zagreb Palace Hotel Jarun Lake Museum of broken relationships Lotrscak tower Kino Europa Cafe Museum of Contemporary Art Peter Preradovica's Square Kino Europa Shop Mirogoj C