Best destinations to celebrate New Year's Eve in Europe - Europe's Best Destinations Welcome to the official Europe's Best Destinations website Explore Europe Best destinations 2016 Christmas markets Ski Resorts Romantic destinations Hidden gems Best beaches Beautiful bridges Best National Parks Best Shopping Centers More inspiration Destinations Plan your stay Book your flight Compare low cost flights to Europe countries then book your airline tickets directly by clicking through to agency and airline sites. Find your hotel Compare all Europe hotel deals at once. Up to 80% off. View maps, photos and guest reviews. Our tool compare 1000+ travel sites. Tours & Activities Discover Europe’s biggest collection of things to do and guided tours. Whatever you want to do you’ll find it here. Best price guarantee ! Menu Trending searches : Best beaches Zadar Ski resorts Porto Hotels Christmas 2016 Amsterdam Romantic Milan Welcome to ... the Dordogne Valley in France... An ideal destination for nature lovers ! Discover Best Christmas markets 2016 Dive into our selection of the best Christmas markets in Europe. Discover Porto Travel Guide The colourful streets of Porto and the Portuguese sweetness of life are waiting for you ! Discover ❤ Join us on : Home Destinations Aachen Aberdeen Aix-en-Provence Aix-Les-Bains Alicante Algarve Amsterdam Antibes Antwerp Athens Arles Avignon Azores Barcelona Basel Belfast Belgrade Bergen Berlin Biarritz Bielefeld Bilbao Birmingham Bologna Bolzano Bonn Bordeaux Bratislava Bristol Brno Brussels Budapest Cadiz Cannes Cesis Colmar Cologne Copenhagen Cordoba Dijon Dordogne Valley Dublin Dresden Dubrovnik Duisburg Dusseldorf Edinburgh Florence Frankfurt Gdansk Geneva Gijon Glasgow Gothenburg Graz Hamburg Hannover Helsinki Innsbruck Inverness Istanbul Istria Kaunas Kotor Krakow Krk Lausanne Le Havre Leipzig Liepaja Lille Linz Lisbon Ljubljana Locarno London Lourdes Lucerne Luxembourg Madeira Madrid Malaga Malta Manchester Marseille Metz Miskolc Milan Montreux Montpellier Mont Saint-Michel Mullerthal Munich Nantes Nice Nicosia Novi Sad Nuremberg Opatija Oslo Oxford Palermo Palma de Mallorca Paris Pisa Plovdiv Porto Poznan Prague Reykjavik Riga Rijeka Rome Rotterdam Rouen Sainte Maxime Saint-Tropez Salzburg San Sebastian Sarejevo Sintra Sibenik Skopje Sorrento Split Stari Grad Stirling Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tampere The Hague Thessaloniki Toulouse Valencia Venice Ventspils Vilnius Vienna Vicenza Warsaw Wroclaw York Zadar Zagreb Best of Europe European Best Destinations 2016 Europe Best Destinations 2015 Best beaches in Europe 2015 2014 Best hidden gems in Europe Best summer music festivals Best Romantic Destinations in Europe Best destinations to celebrate new year's eve in Europe Best Christmas City Breaks in Europe Best wine destinations in Europe Best castles in Europe Best thermal destinations in Europe Most beautiful landscapes in Europe Best amusement parks in Europe Best celebrities destinations Best destinations for sales in Europe Portugal Quiz Europe Vs the world Beautiful piers in Europe Best events in Europe Best trendy events in Europe Best beach huts in Europe Best amazing events in Europe Best museums in Europe Best shopping centers in Europe Best Royal Family Palaces Best destinations to celebrate Chinese New Year in Europe Extreme points of Europe Best lighthouses in Europe Best Gay pride in Europe Most beautiful bridges in Europe Best greenhouses in Europe Best amazing monuments in Europe Best abandoned places in Europe Best city Parks in Europe Best flea markets in Europe Best funiculars in Europe Best Wellness Hotels in Europe Best national parks in Europe Seven Wonders of Europe Best subway stations in Europe Best railway stations in Europe Best hotel's suites in Europe Best gay friendly hotels in Europe Best pools in Europe Europe Best Destinations 2014 Europe Best Destinations 2013 Christmas markets European Best Christmas markets 2015 Best Christmas destinations in Europe Christmas in Germany Christmas in the United Kingdom Christmas in France Aachen Antwerp Avignon Baden-Baden Barcelona Basel Bath Berlin Bern Birmingham Braunschweig Brixen Brussels Budapest Colmar Cologne Dordrecht Dresden Dubrovnik Dusseldorf Ghent Glasgow Graz Hasselt Helsinki Innsbruck Leeds Leipzig Leuven Liege Lille London Lucerne Madrid Manchester Mulhouse Newcastle Nuremberg Odense Oxford Paris Prague Rothenburg Salzburg St Gallen Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tallinn Vienna Vilnius Worms Zagreb Europe's best Christmas markets 2014 Ski European Best Ski Resorts 2015 Europe's best ski resorts 2014 AlpedHuez Åre Baqueira Beret Courchevel Engadin Samnaun Gstaad Ischgl Kitzbühel La Plagne Les Arcs Saalbach-Hinterglemm Saint François Longchamp Saint-Gervais-Mont-Blanc Sölden Skiwelt Wilder Kaiser - Brixental Val Thorens Travel Guide Porto Things to do Mercado do Bolhao market Porto Ribeira and Miragaia World of Discoveries Porto Fondation Serralves Porto Electrico Porto old tram Torre dos Clerigos Tower Porto Se Catedral Porto Rua Santa Catarina Porto Funicular dos Guindais Porto Miradouro da Victoria Porto Miradouro da Serra do Pilar Teleferico de Gaia Cable Car Sao Bento Train Station Jardim do Palacio de Cristal Porto Parque da Cidade Porto Passeio dos Clerigos Porto Foz do Douro Porto Cais de Gaia Porto Belo Mercado Livraria Lello Bookshop Porto Miguel Bombarda, Porto's creators area A Vida Portuguesa Porto Cafe Majestic Porto Casa da Musica Porto Best beaches in Porto and Gaia Best bars and restaurants in Porto Six Bridges Cruise Porto Porto Helicopter tour Classico Porto Tour The Region Aveiro Braga Bom Jesus de Braga Sameiro Guimaraes Hotels Pousada Mosteiro de Guimaraes NHotel Collection Porto Batalha Grande Hotel do Porto The Yeatman Hotel Porto Porto InterContinental Hotel Pestana Palacio do Freixo Porto Flattered Porto Apartements Aparthotel Oporto Sol Porto Sense Apartments Flights Travel tips Gallery Bordeaux Top things to do in Bordeaux Hidden Bordeaux Bay of Arcachon Saint-Emilion Vineyards Plan your stay in Bordeaux Zagreb and Croatia Dolac market Cathedral Marijina Usnesenja Botanical Garden Archeological Museum Ilica Street Maksimir Park Ban Jelacic Square Zagreb's Funicular Green horseshoe Upper town old part of Zagreb Palace Hotel Jarun Lake Museum of broken relationships Lotrscak tower Kino Europa Cafe Museum of Contemporary Art Peter Preradovica's Square Kino Europa Shop Mirogoj Cemetery Avenue Mall Oktogon Gallery Hinterland Tkalciceva street Agava Restaurant Slejme Zadar's sunset Plitivice Lakes Boutique Hostel Forum Ugljan island City of Zadar Petcrane beach St Anastasia Bell Tower Nin Luka beach Tvrdava Sv. Mihovil Pula Arena City Centre Pula Park Plaza Histria Ribarska Koliba Restaurant Locanda Blu Restaurant Hotel Lone Rovinj Motovun Mulini Beach Discover Opatija Istanbul Ortaköy Mosque Alleyways of Ortaköy Bosphorus Five Stars Rumelian Castle Çengelköy İskelesi Sumahan on the Water Restaurant Tapasuma Maiden’s Tower Cruise over the Bosphorus Beylerbeyi Palace Grand Bazaar Blue Mosque Hagia Sophia Spice market Galata Bridge restaurants Street food Gulhane Park Topkapi Palace Galata Bridge Eyüp Eyüp Sultan Mosque Eyüp Market Cafe Pierre Loti Taksim Square Cafe francais Urban Suites Swissotel Bosphorus Kanyon shopping mall Barbaros Parki Istiklal Caddesi Perspectives on Istanbul Galata Tower Galata Tower Restaurant Çankaya Caddesi Princes Islands Abandoned building Panorama Buyukada Madeira Mercado dos Lavradores Funchal old town Cathedral of Funchal Cable car to Monte Blandy's wine lodge Venda Velha Madeira Tradicional Museu De Arte Contemporanea Boat trip in Santa Maria de Colombo Igreja do Colegio Faja dos Padres Faja dos Padres Hotel & restaurant Monte Palace Tropical Garden Igreja Da Nossa Senhora do Monte Camara de Lobos Restaurante do Forte Ristorante Villa Cipriani Il Gallo d’Oro Carros Cestos The Vine Hotel Reid's Palace Cabo Girao Pico do Ariero Belvedere Boca da Encumeada Sao Vicente Caves Seixal waterfall Santana houses Madeira Jeep Tour Madeira Theme Park Ribeiro Frio - Balcões Paul da Serra Porto Moniz Quinta do Furao Restaurant Quinta do Furao Hotel Miradouro da Portela Porto Santo Line Pico do Castelo Beaches of Porto Santo City center of Porto Santo Pier of Porto Santo Porto Santo Golf Porto Santo Hotel & Spa Porto Santo beach restaurant Hotels Flights About Contact Press Download Membership New Year's Eve in Europe Best Destinations to celebrate New Year's Eve in Europe Are you tired of seeing the same faces on New Year's Eve? Do you want to see new landscapes, new environments, to meet new people? Discover the best destinations to celebrate New Year in Europe and find the best hotels deals for a wonderful New Year's Eve in Madeira, Berlin, London, Paris. Reykjavik, Brussels, Vienna, Prague, Rome or Dubrovnik.  Bikeworldtravel London England Where? Everywhere!   Why? London is a special place at the turn of the year. The city is lit up and establishments across the capital will pull out all the stops to make this New Year’s Eve in London a memorable one. So, get your nearest and dearest together and say cheers to 2016. At midnight on New Year’s Eve, London’s night skies will be a blaze of light and colour with a display of stunning pyrotechnics from the river on London’s famous South Bank, presented by the Mayor of London and Unicef.    London continues to usher in the New Year on 1 January with the New Year’s Day Parade. This year marks the 30th annual parade to march through London and there will be 8,500 performers representing 20 countries world-wide and from across the London Boroughs, including marching bands, cheerleaders, clowns, acrobats and much more.(©visitlondon).   Hotels in London ©Porto Bay Events Madeira Islands Portugal Where? : From the deck of your cruise ship or from the port of Funchal, the fireworks is so huge that you can not miss it.   Why? : The famous fireworks display, officially recognized by the Guinness World Records, in 2006, as the largest display of fireworks in the world. This magnificent scenario, of rare beauty, is simply unique, with thousands of multi-coloured lamps decorating the amphitheater of Funchal, transforming it into a grandiose stage. As the clock strikes twelve, on the 31st, the sky is lit up with colour, light and hope in a new year that is just beginning. Don’t miss it and come to live up this event in Madeira! (©visitmadeira.pt). Hotels in madeira ©Carollux Berlin Germany Where? At the Brandenburger Gate   Why? Berlin is celebrating New Year’s Eve in style – with around one million visitors gathering at the Brandenburg Gate to welcome in 2016! All the traditional treats are lined up – more than two kilometres of fun stages for shows, party tents, light and laser shows as well as a mass of food and drink stands. The spectacular firework display starts at midnight on the dot – like the clinking of glasses as Berliners and visitors toast the New Year in. The following parties will last well into the small hours! (©visitberlin.de).   Hotels in Berlin melis Paris France Where ? On a boat   Why? The Eiffel Tower, the Seine, the bridges of Paris … a magical setting for a New Year celebration. And for a night you’ll never forget, there is a special festive menu (scallop céviche, duckling breast, Christmas Log) and entertainment from a live orchestra. Please note that guests must be dressed appropriately to board the boat. (©paris.info).   Hotels in Paris © Shaiith Edinburgh Scotland Where? Princes Street in the heart of the city of Edinburgh   Why? Edinburgh's Hogmanay is one of the biggest and best New Year celebrations in the world. Things get underway on 30 December with the spectacular Torchlight Procession. Join thousands of torch carriers as they create a river of fire from the historic Royal Mile to the son et lumiére and fireworks finale on Calton Hill.   On Hogmanay itself, the action moves to Princes Street in the very heart of the city of Edinburgh beneath the spectacular backdrop of Edinburgh Castle. Around 80,000 people party their way into the new year at the Concert in the Gardens featuring incredible live music and entertainment from headlining band Biffy Clyro, DJ’s, giant screens, outdoor bars and of course, the world-famous Edinburgh Hogmanay Midnight Fireworks on the castle ramparts. (©VisitScotland)   Hotels in Edinburgh ©Sean Pavone Porto Portugal Where? Avenida dos Aliados, in front of the Porto City Hall.   Why? New Year’s Eve in Porto can be celebrated in several locations around the city.   On December 31st, there are many street parties and more elaborate programs that serve as options for the thousands of tourists that choose to celebrate the New Year in Porto.   The largest party takes place on Avenida dos Aliados, in front of the Porto City Hall.   This is where the largest number of people gather together and the night always features musical entertainment and fireworks.    However, if you prefer, you can spend New Year’s Eve in a different manner: on board one of the various cruise ships that fill the Douro River on this night, for example.   Porto’s nightclubs, on the other hand, prolong the night’s excitement until dawn. (©Visitporto&norte)   Hotels in Porto Brussels Belgium Where? All around the city!   Why? Experience delirious tourist and cultural activities such as the Atomium and the Manneken Pis. Discover the charming city streets of the Fashion District shopping, packed with clothing and concept stores and a variety of authentic and trendy bars, each with their own selection of renowned Belgian beers. More than 60 DJs in 15 New Year’s Eve parties around the city. A range of parties for all tastes, going from rock 'n' roll, hip-hop to house and techno, as well as gay friendly parties for which Brussels is known for."   (©happybrussels).    Hotels in Brussels ©Sergey Novikov Dubrovnik  Croatia Where? Stradun (the main street of Dubrovnik).   Why? You can arrive in Dubrovnik from all the corners of the earth. You can leave it for the most different corners of the earth too, but you can also come back to Dubrovnik. Dubrovnik is not a city for one time, it’s a gift for a lifetime.   Great entertainment on New Year's Eve 2015 is provided by the selection of the most famous Croatian performers. Dubrovnik residents and their guests will start welcoming the New Year with a rich music and entertainment program. (©dubrovnik.hr).    Hotels in dubrovnik © WienTourismus - Peter Rigaud Vienna Austria Where? City Hall Square and in the Prater    Why? At the change of year, the whole of Vienna is given over to partying and dancing. The New Year’s Eve Trail in the Old City is the highlight. A great ambience can be enjoyed as much at a gala dinner or festive ball as it can at a concert, the opera, in a hip club or a sophisticated bar. (©wien.info).   Hotels in vienna © salvo77_na Rome Italy Where? Imperial Forum   Why? The province of Rome is a matching frame for the many treasures of the capital, and the surrounding area has, more or less directly, experienced the influence of the history of the Eternal City. Rome is probably one of the most romantic places for your New Year's Eve, the Eternal City of love.   Hotels in rome ©Marten_House Prague Czech Republic Where? Letná Gardens   Why? Prague has been considered as one of the most beautiful cities in the world since Middle Ages. Adjectives such as “golden“, “city of a hundred spires“, “the crown of the world“ were attributed to Prague, which is located right in the heart of Europe.   Prague welcomes the year with a traditional fireworks display. The fireworks will be launched from Letná Parks and can be best watched from the bridges and embankments. (©praha.eu).   Hotels in prague Sean Pavone Lisbon Portugal Where? The Terreiro do Paço. From 9pm (metro station: Terreiro do Paço).   Why? On December 31st Lisboa dresses up to welcome the New Year. Thousands of people fill the city main streets and public squares to celebrate amongst the New Year friends.    The Terreiro do Paço will be the giant party hall for the city’s New Year’s celebrations featuring lots of entertainment to mark the passage into the New Year.     Lisboa has begun the countdown to its big New Year's Eve night, which will be held in Terreiro do Paço. But this New Year's Eve promises much more. To mark the entry of the New Year Lisboa's skies will light up with a fabulous fireworks display and musical entertainment.   Do not make any more plans for New Year ... and enter Lisboa's largest "living room", Terreiro do Paço, with a fabulous view of the River Tagus and the best Portuguese music. (©Visitlisboa).   Hotels in lisbon Oleksiy Mark Stockholm Sweden Where? Skansen open-air museum in Stockholm.   Why? Like many other festive occasions in Sweden, the New Year has become increasingly dominated by the traditional offerings of the media.   Each year ends with a live broadcast from the Skansen open-air museum in Stockholm, where the bells chime and a New Year’s verse (interestingly enough by the British poet Lord Alfred Tennyson) is solemnly declaimed to the nation. There’s something nice and secure about rounding off the year in front of the TV in your living room.   Many, however, prefer the cold night air. Those who are not lucky enough to live in a town flat with a view, tend to seek out public places at midnight from where they can fire off rockets and sneak a look at other people’s firework displays.   You stand there, enveloped in your heavy winter coat, gazing open-mouthed as the horizon − whether high-rise buildings in silhouette or a sparse line of pine-trees − comes alight, flashing and crackling.. (©sweden.se).   Hotels in Stockholm Patryk Kosmider Gdansk Poland Where? All around the city!   Why? There is no other place like Gdansk. Other cities can just resemble Gdansk. Its unique location and over a thousand years’ history shape Gdansk’s expressive and distinctive character and give it strong and implicit recognition among European cities. Nonetheless, the city holds an abundance of mysteries; it has got its own spirit which makes it impossible to mistake Gdansk for any other place.. (©gdansk4u).   hotels in Gdansk ©SurangaSL Reykjavik Iceland Where? Although there are no official city sponsored events, there are plenty of private parties and smaller happenings going on all over the city   Why? New Year’s Eve in Reykjavik is an exratordinary experience, especially given the fact that there are no official firework displays in the city. This legendary night is very much created by the people of Reykjavik who collectively do an amazing job. At 23:35 a brilliant display of fireworks is unleashed as 200,000 people (approx.the population of Reykjavík) set off around 500 tons of fireworks. After midnight, the nightclubs and pubs remain open and the celebrations go on well into the morning. (©visitreykjavik.is). Hotels in Reykjavik   Plan your stay in Europe Hotels Flights Cars Best of Europe Best destinations to celebrate new year's eve in Europe Best of Europe Best Destinations 2016 Best ski resorts in Europe Best Christmas markets Best beaches in Europe Cheap hotel deals in Europe Cheap flights to Europe European Best Destinations About us Contact us Membership E-tourism Barometer Download Press Connect with us Subscribe to discover latest travel inspiration, tips and deals from European Best Destinations. Loading Explore Europe Best amusements parks Roller coaster, ghost train, big wheel... Most amazing monuments The strangest & most amazing monuments in Europe. Abandoned places The most amazing abandoned places in Europe. Most beautiful beaches A selection of the best beaches in Europe. Beautiful beach huts The most beautiful beach huts of the European coastline. The 15 best bridges Discover the most beautiful bridges in Europe. Best trendy events Take part to the most exclusive events in Europe. Best city parks Europe offers beautiful parks for your enjoyment. Most beautiful castles Visiting these castles is like diving into our history. Best events Discover our selection of the top events in Europe. Extreme points Beautiful destinations that will help you to better understand Europe. Summer music festivals Be prepared to live unique experiences ! Best flea markets Discover the most amazing flea markets in Europe. Best funiculars Top funiculars that bring you to the most beautiful places in Europe. Gay friendly places Be yourself in the best gay friendly destinations in Europe. Beautiful greenhouses Top greenhouses which are as beautiful as the plants they contain. Beautiful landscapes Travel far away while staying in Europe. Best hidden gems The finest unknown destinations in Europe. Beautiful lighthouses Discover a selection of the not to be missed lighthouses in Europe. Best museums Discover the most impressive museums in Europe. Best national parks Best national parks that are as green as beautiful ! New Year's Eve Discover the best destinations to celebrate New Year in Europe. Beautiful piers Discover the most beautiful piers in Europe. Romantic destinations Discover the best romantic destinations in Europe. Best Royal Palaces The top luxurious castles of the Royal Families. Best subway stations The most incredible subway stations in Europe. Best shopping centers Discover the “temples of shopping” in Europe ! Railway stations Take your ticket for the best railway stations ! Wine destinations Wine tells the whole story of a region. Best ski resorts The 10 best ski resorts in Europe selected by travellers. Best destinations 2016 The 15 best places to visit selected by travellers. Christmas destinations Best Christmas holiday destinations in Europe. Christmas Markets The best Christmas markets selected by travellers. Sales destinations You want to do shopping at the best prices ? Most beautiful pools The most amazing swimming pools in Europe. Wellness hotels Take care of yourself in the most beautiful Wellness hotels. Best hotel's suites The most luxurious and gorgeous hotel suites in Europe. Seven wonders So many treasures are waiting for you to discover them. Join Us On facebook twitter Google + pinterest instagram Discover Europe's best destinations Colmar Colmar is really a condensed version of the Alsace region. London You can't fail to be excited by London's amazing attractions. Berlin Berlin projects itself as a young, dynamic & cosmopolitan city. Azores Discover the charm of these nine charismatic islands. Rome A region with a great deal to offer: history, nature, good food... Prague Discover one of the most beautiful cities in the world! Algarve A place where the climate is mild & sunny all year round! Lisbon There are so many things to see and do in Lisbon! Madeira Islands Discover these enchanted islands… happiness is so near! Porto The colourful streets of Porto are waiting for you! Paris Paris is one of the world’s few really legendary capitals. Milan Milan is the hub of Italian culture, music, media & sports. Madrid The Spanish capital makes everyone feel right at home. Zagreb A large city which managed to stay romantic and safe. Zadar Welcome to Zadar European best destination 2016 ! Brussels Brussels, the capital of 500 million Europeans, is waiting for you. Bordeaux A fascinating town, rich in history, culture and gastronomy. Barcelona A perfect destination for culture, leisure, shopping, nightlife... Athens It is not only an open-air museum but also a contemporary metropolis. Amsterdam Discover five things you probably didn't know about the city. Stari Grad Stari Grad is located in the sunniest island in the Adriatic. Krk Island One of the most attractive tourist destinations in Croatia Metz Metz is the perfect sized town for a short break. San Sebastian San Sebastian is a wonderful city to get lost in and explore. Sainte-Maxime Sainte-Maxime is ideally located in the heart of the Saint-Tropez bay. Plovdiv Plovdiv is a leading cultural, religious, wine and shopping destination. Novi Sad Novi Sad, the city on the Danube, is the experience you must not miss. Nantes A vibrant & young metropolis often rewarded for its top-quality of life. Mullerthal Welcome in the Mullerthal Region – Luxembourg’s Little Switzerland. Montpellier Montpellier is an exceptional destination, rich in character. Miskolc There are nume