The top 10 most competitive economies in Europe | World Economic Forum Agenda Initiatives Reports Events About Español ?? ??? Login to TopLink We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our site. By continuing to use our site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Agenda Initiatives Reports Events About TopLink login ?? Español Global Regional Industry Commentary and analysis shaping our Global, Regional and Industry agendas Emerging Technologies 12 robots that could make (or break) the oceans Competitiveness 10 must-read economics stories of the week Employment and Skills Scientists studied 5,000 gifted children for 45 years. This is what they learned about success Read more Inequality Is political polarization holding back the US? Economy 22 maps that explore modern America Employment and Skills There's a skills mismatch in the US, but maybe employers aren't looking hard enough Read more Technology The reason a re-boot is the go-to computer fix Entrepreneurship These famous inventors helped changed our world, but not all their inventions were a success Artificial Intelligence and Robotics What artificial intelligence will look like in 2030 Read more Read our reports on the broad range of global issues we’re seeking to address Annual Report 2015-2016 7 September 2016 Alternative Investments 2020: The Future of Capital for Entrepreneurs and SMEs 18 August 2016 Disruptive innovation in financial services: A blueprint for digital 12 August 2016 More reports Learn about our activities tackling the most significant global challenges through public-private collaboration Shaping the Future of Consumption Digital Economy and Society Economic Growth and Social Inclusion Education, Gender and Work Energy Environment and Natural Resource Security Financial and Monetary Systems Food Security and Agriculture Health and Healthcare Information and Entertainment International Trade and Investment Long-Term Investing, Infrastructure and Development Mobility Production Latest activity Tropical Forest Alliance 2020 6 Jan 2016 PACI / IU 6 Jan 2016 Promoting Global Financial Inclusion 6 Jan 2016 More initiatives Learn more about our events which work to shape the Global, Regional and Industry agendas Upcoming Event India Economic Summit 2016 6-7 October 2016 New Delhi, India Past events Annual Meeting of the New Champions 2016 26-28 June 2016 Tianjin, People's Republic of China World Economic Forum on Latin America 2016 16-17 June 2016 Medellin, Colombia World Economic Forum on ASEAN 2016 1-2 June 2016 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia More events Committed to improving the state of the world About Us Our Mission Leadership and Governance Our Members and Partners Communities History Klaus Schwab Media Contact Us Careers World Economic Forum USA Code of Conduct Privacy and Terms of Use How to get involved Communities Careers The top 10 most competitive economies in Europe Written by Caroline Galvan, Senior Manager, World Economic Forum Wednesday 30 September 2015 Written by Caroline Galvan Senior Manager, World Economic Forum Published Wednesday 30 September 2015 Share Latest Articles Reinventing leadership – 10 imperative leadership aptitudes you will need as a systemic leader Michael Buehler 16 Sep 2016 12 robots that could make (or break) the oceans Nishan Degnarain and Douglas McCauley 16 Sep 2016 10 must-read economics stories of the week Regular Author Jennifer Blanke 16 Sep 2016 More on the agenda European countries continue to dominate the overall rankings in the Global Competitiveness Index, accounting for six of the top 10 and 10 of the top 20. These economies, all from the north and west of the continent, have mostly now recovered to their pre-crisis levels of competitiveness. Further east and south, the picture is less encouraging: the five countries with advanced economy status which were ranked as least competitive in 2007 – Slovenia, Portugal, Italy, Cyprus, and Greece – saw their GDP growth fall further, and recover more slowly, than their more competitive peers. Greece ranks lowest overall of the advanced economies in the latest Index, at 81st out of 140. Some advanced economies outside Europe’s top 10 are seeing the benefit of reforms: France, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, for example, have all progressed in the areas of market competition and labour market efficiency. Yet other factors are dragging down competitiveness: in the eurozone, finance remains more difficult to access than eight years ago. The eurozone’s monetary policy and the Russian recession are among factors challenging Europe’s emerging economies, who range from 36th (Lithuania) to 111th (Bosnia and Herzegovina) in the overall rankings – but their growth is projected to remain steady, with the Baltics generally doing better than those in Central and Southern Europe. Switzerland. Europe’s top performer is also the top performer globally, heading the Index for the seventh consecutive year. Switzerland has shown resilience in the crisis, thanks in part to its strong fundamentals: it leads globally in three of the 12 “pillars” on which the overall ranking is based – innovation, business sophistication and labour market efficiency – and is the top ten in ten of the 12. Yet the country faces some challenges to its continued dominance, uncertainty about future immigration policy and a low female participation rate. Germany. Up one to 4th place overall, Germany has also been one of the most resilient economies in recent years and shares many of Switzerland’s strong fundamentals in the more complex areas of competitiveness – those related to business sophistication, innovation, research and technology. Its improvement on last year’s position reflects strengthened efficiency in the financial and labour markets – the latter, admittedly, from a low base – and an improved macroeconomic environment, thanks in part to a reduction in government debt. The Netherlands. Matching its best-ever position of 5th in the overall rankings, the Netherlands gains three places on last year thanks to small but generalized improvements. The Dutch economy is sophisticated and innovative, with an open and efficient goods market, and performs strongly in the pillars of education, infrastructure and institutions. Its weaknesses include labour market rigidities and a financial market that has yet to recover from the crisis. Finland. Sliding by four places to 8th overall, Finland’s relatively undiversified economy has suffered from shocks to the information technology and paper industries as well as the recession in Russia, one of its largest export markets. Its GDP last year was still 6% off its levels of 2008. Yet it still has some strong fundamentals, characterized by strong institutions, an excellent education system and a strong capacity for innovation. Priorities for arresting its slide in the overall rankings include fixing long-standing rigidities in its labour market and a growing public deficit. Sweden. Typically for Scandinavia, Sweden’s institutions are transparent and efficient; in combination with its excellent education system, sophisticated businesses and wide penetration of ICTs, this creates an ecosystem conducive to innovation. The two biggest concerns for executives doing business in Sweden are its restrictive labour regulations – although mitigated by good relationships between employers and workers – and rates of tax which continue to be high by international standards. The United Kingdom. Although registering some improvements, the UK slips behind Sweden in this year’s ranking, with its main area of weakness being macroeconomic – the government deficit remains very high at 9% of GDP. On the positive side, the country has created conditions for its service sector to flourish and to establish London as Europe’s leading tech and start-up hub. Norway. Ranking 11th in the overall index for the third successive year, Norway is seen as having most stable macroeconomic environment in the world; it also registers top-10 scores on the pillars of institutions, higher education and training, technological readiness, financial market development and labour market efficiency. Its weakest poi