Caribbean economies continue to face growth challenges in 2016 | Miami Herald News Sports Business Real Estate Sign In Subscribe Sign In Subscribe Home Customer Service Site Information Contact Us About Us Herald Store RSS Feeds Special Sections Advertise Advertise with Us Media Kit Mobile Mobile Apps & eReaders Mobile Alerts Newsletters Social Facebook Twitter Google+ Instagram YouTube Digital Edition News Sections News South Florida Miami-Dade Broward Florida Keys Florida Politics Weird News Weather National & World National World Americas Cuba Guantánamo Haiti Venezuela Local Issues Crime Education Environment Health Care In Depth Issues & Ideas Traffic Sports Sections Sports Blogs & Columnists Pro & College Miami Dolphins Miami Heat Miami Marlins Florida Panthers College Sports University of Miami Florida International University of Florida Florida State University More Sports High School Sports Auto Racing Fighting Golf Horse Racing Outdoors Soccer Tennis Youth Sports Other Sports Politics Politics Elections 2016 Business Sections Business Business Monday Banking International Business National Business Personal Finance Real Estate News Small Business Technology Tourism & Cruises Workplace Business Plan Challenge Blogs & Columnists Cindy Krischer Goodman The Starting Gate Work/Life Balancing Act Movers Living Sections Living Advice Fashion Food & Drink Health & Fitness Home & Garden Pets Recipes Travel Wine Blogs & Columnists Dave Barry Ana Veciana-Suarez Flashback Miami More Living Gay South Florida Palette Magazine Indulge Magazine South Florida Album Broward Album Entertainment Sections Entertainment Books Comics Games & Puzzles Horoscopes Movies Music & Nightlife People Performing Arts Restaurants TV Visual Arts Blogs & Columnists Christine Dolen Jordan Levin Jose Lambiet Lesley Abravanel Rene Rodriguez More Entertainment Events Calendar Miami.com Contests & Promotions Opinion Sections All Opinion Editorials Op-Ed Editorial Cartoons Jim Morin Letters to the Editor From Our Inbox Speak Up Submit a Letter Meet the Editorial Board Blogs & Columnists Blog Directory Columnist Directory Andres Oppenheimer Carl Hiaasen Glenn Garvin Leonard Pitts Jr. Fred Grimm Fabiola Santiago Obituaries Obituaries Obituaries in the News Place an Obituary Classifieds Place an ad All Classifieds Announcements Apartments Auctions/Sales Automotive Commercial Real Estate Employment Garage Sales Legals Merchandise Obituaries Pets Public Notices Real Estate Services Public Notices Cars Jobs Moonlighting Real Estate Rentals Find & Save el Nuevo Herald Miami.com In Cuba Today Americas March 27, 2016 3:00 PM Caribbean economies continue to face growth challenges in 2016 The Caribbean remains in recovery mode Sharp decline in oil prices impacting Trinidad and Tobago Tiny Dominica predicted to lead Caribbean growth, while Haiti continues to struggle A man rides his bike through the Caracol-EKAM housing development built by the U.S. Agency for International Development. PATRICK FARRELL MIAMI HERALD STAFF i By Jacqueline Charles jcharles@miamiherald.com LinkedIn Google+ Pinterest Reddit Print Order Reprint of this Story PORT-AU-PRINCE As Belize Prime Minister Dean Barrow welcomed Caribbean Community leaders to his English-speaking Central-American nation last month, there was one topic that he couldn’t ignore. “There has been a failure of the world economy to recover properly from the shock of the financial crisis,” Barrow said, touching on an all-too-familiar concern among leaders of the 15-member regional bloc known as Caricom. “That failure, for the majority of us in Caricom, has meant slow growth, increasing difficulties with our public finances, and tremendous strains on our capacity to satisfy the life-improvement aspirations of our people.” Indeed, the decline in global economic growth from 3.4 percent in 2014 to 3.1 percent last year provided for a difficult economic year for the region’s economies, the Caribbean Development Bank said. Still tourism in the region set new arrival and spending records. “Visitors spent over $1 billion more than they did in 2014, contributing approximately U.S.$30 billion to Caribbean economies,” Hugh Riley, secretary general of the Caribbean Tourism Organization, said. “That’s 4.2 percent higher than the $28.8 billion spent during the previous year.” But while Riley and other Caribbean tourism officials are glowing, economists and prime ministers remain guarded. The region faces a mixed economic outlook in 2016 as a new mosquito-borne virus, Zika, threatens tourism goals, and falling commodity prices impact the fortunes of exporters such as Trinidad and Tobago, Suriname and Guyana. Caribbean nations that export hydrocarbons and minerals, for example, can expect to see their trade numbers deteriorate. I am guardedly optimistic about 2016. Economic recovery remains fragile; but we expect that the countries will continue on an upward trajectory. William Warren Smith, the head of the Caribbean Development Bank Overall, Caribbean economies in 2016 are expected to grow by just 0.2 percent with the English-speaking nations in the region predicted to do a little better at 1.6 percent, according to the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC). In Santiago, Chile, the United Nations regional organization presented its annual report Preliminary Overview of the Economies of Latin America and the Caribbean 2015, in which it updated the estimates given last October and called again on the region’s countries to invigorate economic growth through greater investment and higher productivity. It is forecasting that Dominica, which is still recovering from Tropical Storm Erika in August, and the Dominican Republic will lead the Caribbean growth at 5.2 percent, followed by St. Kitts and Nevis at 4.7 percent. Meanwhile, Cuba, which has been enjoying improved relations with the United States and a loosening of restrictions, is expected to grow by 4.2 percent. William Warren Smith, the head of the Caribbean Development Bank, said Caribbean economies remain in recovery mode. For example, 13 of its 19 members are expected to show faster growth while two of its stronger members, Trinidad and Tobago and Suriname, will see negative growth, the bank noted in its annual overview for the region. “I am guardedly optimistic about 2016,” Smith said. “Economic recovery remains fragile; but we expect that the countries will continue on an upward trajectory.” Smith noted that the Caribbean’s economic recovery is “occurring at a time of great uncertainty in what is emerging as a somewhat topsy-turvy external environment.” The external threats include the possibility of economic weakening in Europe and North America and the uncertainty concerning China. Meanwhile, a correspondent bank “de-risking” crisis is threatening the financial and economic stability of Caribbean economies: Many U.S. banks end relations with Caribbean banks because they consider them risky for money laundering. The crisis is already impacting banking in countries like Belize where it is becoming increasingly difficult to move money in and out. “This deprives our banks of the ability to keep U.S. deposits, do wire transfers, facilitate credit card settlements for their local clients and our economy,” Barrow said at the same meeting. “The implications of this for our international trade, for our remittances, for our structures of production, consumption and investment, are so obvious as to require little further elaboration.” The external threats to economic recovery in the region include the possibility of economic weakening in Europe and North America and the uncertainty concerning China. The end of correspondent banking relationships isn’t the only threat to the region’s financial and economic stability. Unemployment, drought and falling oil prices also impacted growth in 2015 and will continue to have an impact in 2016, experts say. A look at some of the economies and their challenges Trinidad and Tobago: Following an International Monetary Fund mission earlier this month, the head of the IMF mission delegation said the oil-rich economy of Trinidad and Tobago is confronting a major shock as energy prices sharply decline. “The mission projects [the Gross Domestic Product] to fall 1 percent this year,” Elie Canetti said. “In addition, declines in energy-based revenues will constrain the government’s ability to act as an engine of growth.” Despite the challenges and last year’s declaration by the country’s central bank that the twin-island’s economy was in a recession, Canetti said Trinidad and Tobago was not in a crisis. However, Trinidadians are being warned that absent some measures, they could soon be forced to take on “uncomfortable” levels of debts. “Trinidad and Tobago still has enormous strengths, including a well-educated work force and a stable political system. With substantial financial buffers and low, albeit rising levels of public debt, Trinidad and Tobago is not in a crisis,” Canetti said. “Nonetheless, in recent years, taking into account the size of energy revenue windfalls, the country has under-saved and under-invested in its future. As a consequence, the imbalances that are now starting to build up could lead the country to uncomfortable levels of debt,” Canetti said.? Haiti: The French- and Creole-speaking nation is in dire financial straits as it faces the dual threat of devaluation and drought. Haiti farmers are facing up to 70 percent crop losses, the World Food Program said, and as a result Haiti is facing its worst food crisis in 15 years. Experts say the effects of the drought, and the ongoing political crisis over the unsettled presidential and parliamentary elections are weighing heavily on the gradual decline of the domestic currency, the gourde. Meanwhile, political uncertainty — the presidential runoff elections have been repeatedly delayed — are adding to the economy’s woes. Inflation is double digit, and the investment budget has seen a sharp decline. With no money for the investment budget, social programs remain unfunded, and construction activity has slowed to a crawl. Six years after the Jan. 12, 2010, earthquake, donor support has also seen a sharp decline impacting reconstruction projects. One bright spot for Haiti: the strong growth in manufacturing, especially in the apparel sector, the CDB noted. The sector continues to benefit from U.S. duty-free legislation. For example, at the end of 2015, the U.S.-funded Caracol Industrial Park in northern Haiti saw a 71 percent increase in jobs over 2014. There were 9,120 jobs directly supported at the park, according to its year-end report. As for 2016, ECLAC is predicting a 2.5 percent growth. But that was based on Haiti having an elected president in office by Feb. 7. Much of what happens, say donors and experts, will now depend on how quickly the country can put a democratically elected government in place to address its economic and looming humanitarian challenges. Jamaica: The economy continues to improve under the oversight of the IMF as a new government takes charge after last month’s elections. Riding a wave of discontent over the economy and promising to improve the lives of Jamaicans, the Jamaica Labor Party swept into office after dealing a major upset to the People’s National Party. While investor confidence and the economy saw improvements under the People’s National Party’s leadership, Jamaicans were tired of the austerity and were drawn to the JLP’s promises to cut taxes. The IMF is predicting that Jamaica’s sputtering economy will grow 2.1 percent this year, the fastest pace in a decade. Jamaica’s public debt is also expected to continue to decline by the end of this year, the CDB said. Unlike the IMF, however, it’s less optimistic about its growth forecast. “CDB expects growth in Jamaica to be about 1 percent based on robust tourism activity and increased aluminum production, although output growth of some export crops could fall as prices stay low,” the bank said. This is expected to be aided by the continued rise in investor confidence as a result of reduced inflationary expectations, an improved business environment thanks to the improvement of port efficiency and initiatives resulting in lower electricity prices, improved access to finance for small businesses, and a quicker construction approval process place_fact3 Like Haiti and other nations in the region, Jamaica was affected by the drought. But the agriculture sector still contributed to growth, along with manufacturing in the area of petroleum refinery production and food and beverages. Bahamas: The country, like Dominica, faced a major setback in 2015 because of natural disaster. In September, Hurricane Joaquin struck the southeastern islands of the Bahamas, slowing GDP growth. And while neighboring Turks and Caicos Islands saw a 4 percent growth in tourism, overall tourist numbers fell in the Bahamas, the CDB said. Not helping tourism or the economy in general were the issues around the construction of the major resort Baha Mar that was supposed to add 12 percent to the GDP. But the resort, which was expected to create thousands of badly needed jobs, saw construction cease before completion and has been embroiled in legal proceedings. As a result, the Bahamas saw its sovereign credit rating take a huge hit last year as Standard & Poor’s downgraded it. ? Cuba: The resumption of diplomatic ties with the United States in December and President Barack Obama’s recent historic visit are creating new possibilities for the Spanish-speaking Caribbean nation. While the U.S. embargo remains in place, some restrictions have been loosened, raising visibility and expectations. Last year, the economy grew by 4 percent thanks to the arrival of millions of tourists, remittances and foreign investments. Economic reforms such as a new credit policy are also helping foster growth. For example, it is now easier for Cubans engaged in construction activities and small-scale farming — drivers of the Cuban economy — to access credit. Another change: government tourism companies are booking reservations for tour groups with private restaurants, paladares and casa particulares — private bed-and-breakfasts. “In 2016, GDP growth is expected to slightly top 4 percent, driven by increases in both consumption and investment. Foreign investment is also expected to play a more important role in the growth of the Cuban economy,” ECLAC said. Andrew Holness, Jamaica's new prime minister speaks after being sworn in by Governor General Sir Patrick Allen, in Kingston, Jamaica, Thursday, March 3, 2016. Holness was elected with a slim-margin victory over then Prime Minister Portia Simpson-Miller of the People's National Party. Collin Reid AP Wind and rain from Hurricane Joaquin affect Nassau, Bahamas, Friday, Oct. 2, 2015. Hurricane Joaquin dumped torrential rains across the eastern and central Bahamas as a Category 4 storm. Tim Aylen AP 1 of 2 i Related content Latin American economies continue to limp along LinkedIn Google+ Pinterest Reddit Print Order Reprint of this Story Americas Comments Videos facebook twitter email Share More Videos 0:46 FARC arrives for historic gathering (No audio) Pause 4:19 Alan Gross says Cuba needs to join the 21st century 1:11 American Airlines flight lands in Cienfuegos, Cuba 1:27 Walter Sedovic preservation architect heading to Cuba 1:31 JetBlue's historic flight to Cuba 1:17 JetBlue flight leaves for Cuba 0:36 Cuban ambassador cuts ribbon to historic flight 3:04 Former Haitian president Aristide shows support for candidate 2:50 Downsizing detainee operations at U.S. Navy Base at Guantánamo Bay 1:08 Life after the Olympics 2:21 Victims of the Beast migrant train tell their story Share Video Video link: Select Embed code: Select facebook twitter email 13 hours ago Former Haiti President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on the campaign trail 2:52 13 hours ago Former Haiti President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on the campaign trail 0:46 2 days ago FARC arrives for historic gathering (No audio) 4:19 8 days ago Alan Gross says Cuba needs to join the 21st century View more video Americas The Peruvian navy is here and glad to see us (those were FRIENDLY cannon shots) International observers will start arriving in Haiti for Oct. 9 vote Cienfuegos entrepreneu