The Promise of Argentina’s Economic Transition | Institutional Investor
 Please login to print this page Institutional Investor Brands II's Alpha II's Sovereign Wealth Center Foundations and Endowments Money Management Intelligence IISearches Journals Conferences Data Store Training Banking + Capital Markets Banking Corporations Emerging Markets Foreign Exchange Trading & Technology The Daily Agenda New Economies Asset Management Equities Fixed Income Hedge Funds & Alternatives Indexing & ETFs Macro Regulation Investors Endowments & Foundations Pensions Registered Investment Advisers Sovereign Wealth Funds Delivering Alpha Research + Rankings Leading Analysts Sales, Trading & Corporate Access Leading Executives Top Money Managers Global Rankings FAQs Blogs Ashby Monk's Avenue of Giants Daniel Nadler’s At the Digital Edge Global Market Thought Leaders Jeffrey Kutler's The Futurist Tom Buerkle's The Globalist Unconventional Wisdom Vitaliy Katsenelson's Inefficient Markets Inside Edge from Our Reporters Video II Insights Target Date Funds Channel Special Reports eBooks Webcasts White Papers Awards Career Center InvestPitch {{helper.title}} Loading... Search Subscribe Register Login Banking + Capital Markets  Banking Corporations Emerging Markets Foreign Exchange Trading & Technology The Daily Agenda New Economies Asset Management  Equities Fixed Income Hedge Funds & Alternatives Indexing & ETFs Macro Regulation Investors  Endowments & Foundations Pensions Registered Investment Advisers Sovereign Wealth Funds Delivering Alpha Research + Rankings  Leading Analysts Sales, Trading & Corporate Access Leading Executives Top Money Managers Global Rankings FAQs Blogs  Ashby Monk's Avenue of Giants Daniel Nadler’s At the Digital Edge Global Market Thought Leaders Jeffrey Kutler's The Futurist Tom Buerkle's The Globalist Unconventional Wisdom Vitaliy Katsenelson's Inefficient Markets Inside Edge from Our Reporters Video  II Insights  Target Date Funds Channel Special Reports eBooks Webcasts White Papers Awards Career Center InvestPitch {{helper.title}} Loading... Search Subscribe Register Login Home » The Promise of Argentina’s Economic Transition More Global Market Thought Leaders BlackRock Although Demographics Aren’t Economic Destiny, They Demand Attention September 07, 2016 Emerging-Markets Debt Traffic Light Goes from Yellow to Green August 09, 2016 More From BlackRock   AllianceBernstein Evaluating the Recovery in Emerging Markets September 07, 2016 Stressed? A Low-Volatility Strategy May Help August 16, 2016 More From AllianceBernstein   JP Morgan Asset Management Why the Hedge Fund Beta Revolution May Actually Be the Industry’s Redemption September 16, 2016 Examining the Fixed-Income Puzzle September 15, 2016 More From JP Morgan Asset Management   Pimco So Why Did a Bond Market Indicator of Inflation Collapse? June 26, 2016 5 Reasons Investors Might Not Want to Turn Risk Off Just Yet June 16, 2016 More From Pimco   Investec Asset Management Brazil’s Economy Is Seeing the Light at the End of the Tunnel September 01, 2016 Is Long-Term Value Creation in Equity Markets Possible? August 05, 2016 More From Investec Asset Management   KKR 5 Key Investment Themes: Finding Focus in the Volatility September 15, 2016 The Promise of Argentina’s Economic Transition August 03, 2016 More From KKR   State Street Global Advisors Unexpected Risk Meets Unexpected Data August 21, 2016 ETFs vs. Futures: A Shifting Landscape August 07, 2016 More From State Street Global Advisors   The Promise of Argentina’s Economic Transition August 03, 2016 Digg.com Technorati.com Del.icio.us Stumbleupon.com Reddit.com Fark.com Facebook Yahoo! Twitter LinkedIn Text Bigger Text Smaller X You must be a Registered User to print articles. Register today for inside access to our thought-provoking coverage of the global financial markets! Interactive Digital Access Research & Ranking Summary Results Monthly Magazine* Daily eNewslettersRegister Today *For qualified registrants only Login Forgot Password? Neil Brown Page 1 of 2 At a time when populist politics are driving many countries away from investment-friendly policies, Argentina is quickly moving in the opposite direction. Latin America?s fourth-largest economy is starting to reopen for business. In trips we at KKR have made this year, we?ve seen small things ? like not needing a fistful of U.S. dollars to manage a dual exchange rate, running into U.S. President Barack Obama?s entourage on the street in Buenos Aires and seeing the evident optimism in local businessmen ? that indicate how much change is afoot. It is still early days in President Mauricio Macri?s tenure. So far we have been impressed by his team?s clear focus on normalizing Argentina?s economy and reintegrating into the global system. Prior to the country?s general election last October and runoff in November, people were wondering whether meaningful reform would happen at all. That question has been answered: Macri has decisively turned away from the economic policies of former president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner. Now the questions are how deep the reforms will be and whether they will provoke a popular backlash. Achieving normality is an ambitious vision for Argentina?s economy. The Macri government and the country will undoubtedly have setbacks, and there is no guarantee of success. Nonetheless, we believe the door is now open for long-term investors to consider Argentina. The core economic policy challenge facing the Macri government is to instill macroeconomic discipline while delivering on private sector?led job creation and improving productivity. These are no small tasks for an administration that inherited a state-led, closed economy in recession, with a 30 percent poverty rate and woeful productivity, and at a time of economic havoc in its largest trading partner, Brazil. Soon after taking office in December, Macri swept away barriers to entry for private investors, such as capital controls and trade restrictions. Early fiscal adjustments to reduce the comparatively high tax burden and adjust subsidies were put in motion. On monetary policy, the peso printing presses finally slowed, and the currency was floated. Early shock therapy was unexpectedly successful: Exports responded quickly, showing a 25 percent year-over-year increase in February. The hard work of planning and implementing fiscal adjustment, taming inflation and encouraging private investment is under way. Contrary to the argument of some analysts in favor of a quick rollback of subsidies, we think the government?s more deliberate approach is necessary to avoid stoking social unrest. Unlike its subsidy-laden emerging-markets peers, Argentina has a low debt-to-GDP ratio that will allow it to finance its fiscal adjustment in the near term through issuance of debt ? now possible with resolution of the foreign debt holdout situation ? and the financial repatriation program now under way. Fiscal tightening is ultimately necessary, although we think a focus on a more productive use of spending in the near term will have a strong impact on growth. For potential private investments, we are looking to see changes in the operating environment: improved judicial independence, a reduction in bureaucratic and regulatory impediments, better service delivery and an embrace of international anticorruption norms. Nevertheless, having met with a number of local companies and funds, we found a great deal of local optimism ? an encouraging change from our preelection conversations over the past two years. Most economists project that the economy will turn the corner to growth by the end of the year, and businesses have new liquidity from peso devaluation and export opportunities. A number of relatively unlevered Argentinean companies have already been upgraded, and we expect them to easily raise foreign capital. Smaller companies, however, will need the development of local capital markets. More than a decade of devastating state intervention has left businesses, with the possible exception of oil and gas, in survival, rather than value-creation, mode and deeply eroded the industrial base. Although that n