Basic Factors of Economic Decision Making | Chron.com Skip to main content. Subscribe to the Houston Chronicle | Shopping | Classifieds | Obits | Place an Ad | La Voz Register | Sign In Home Local In Local Neighborhoods Houston & Texas Traffic Weather Education Politics & Policy Election 2013 Chronicle Investigates Obituaries Staff Blogs Reader Blogs Columnists Opinions & Editorials La Voz (Español) Neighborhoods Bay Area Bellaire Cy-Fair Fort Bend Heights Katy Kingwood Memorial Pearland Spring The Woodlands Houston & Texas Houston Texas Weather SciGuy's Weather Blog Houston Weather Severe Weather News Hurricane Guide Politics & Policy Texas Politics Houston Politics Endorsements Opinions & Editorials Editorials Letters to the Editor Outlook Nick Anderson Cartoons Bill King Columns Recommendations 2013 US & World In US & World US News World News The Americas Politics Space Strange & Weird News Videos JFK: After 50 Years Sports In Sports Texans Rockets Astros Dynamo High school Colleges UH Rice UT A&M Outdoors Videos More Sports Buy Tickets Outdoors Hunting & Fishing More Sports Golf Business In Business Energy Technology Real Estate Houston Business News Business Insider Markets Press Releases Small Business Mgmt Chron 100 Top Workplaces Legal News Sponsored Content Entertainment In Entertainment Preview Restaurants & Bars Restaurant Search Music Movies Movie Times Arts & Theater Horoscopes Comics & Games Things To Do Contests Preview Alison Cook Restaurant Reviews Whine & Dine Top 100 Restaurants Music Rolling Stone Heavy.com Lifestyle In Lifestyle Holidays Health Zone Style Mom Houston Houston Belief Food & Cooking Society Travel Pets Houston Gives Discover Houston Weddings & Celebrations Sponsored Content Health Zone M.D. Finder The Doctors Live Healthy Health Videos Better Sleep Style Luxury Auto Beauty Dining Fashion Home & Design Home Elegance Lust List Travel Window Shopping Food & Cooking Alison Cook Restaurant Reviews Whine & Dine Top 100 Restaurants Travel Flight Tracker Texas Road Trips Ski & Snow Discover Houston About Houston Arts & Entertainment Employment & Economy Food & Drink Health Care Real Estate Retirement Sports & Outdoors Suburbs Weekends Jobs In Jobs Advanced search Browse job categories Salary Wizard Career Rescue Careers in Engineering Salute to Nurses Work & Career Advice Job Fairs & Career Expo Post a Job Cars In Cars Cars & Auto News Heidi's Cars Blog Houston Auto Show New Car Search Used Car Search Certified Car Search Houston Auto Dealers Real Estate In Real Estate New Homes Second Homes Rentals Home Price Survey Research Mortgages Commercial Real Estate Farms & Ranches Senior Living Chron Homes App Subscribe Small Business Accounting & Bookkeeping| Advertising & Marketing| Business Communications & Etiquette |More » » Business Models & Organizational Structure » Business Planning & Strategy » Business Technology & Customer Support » Business & Workplace Regulations » Finances & Taxes » Human Resources » Managing Employees » Money & Debt » Running a Business » Setting Up a New Business » Types of Businesses to Start Small Business > Business Planning & Strategy > Making Business Decisions Basic Factors of Economic Decision Making by David Ingram, studioD Economic decision making is all about maximizing value. money image by cherie from Fotolia.com Related Articles Factors Influencing Decision Making in a Business Environment What Are the Steps in the Decision-Making Process of a Manager? Economic Definition of the Four Factors of Production What Is the Most Important Factor Influencing Decision Making? Making Business Decisions Economic models help managers and economists analyze the economic decision-making process. Each model relies on a number of assumptions, or basic factors that are present in all decision situations. Almost everyone in society engages in economic decision making at some point, from the billionaire investing in real estate, to the small business owner signing a contract with a supplier, to the teenager buying a video game or applying for a job; and these basic factors almost always come into play. Working on a Budget Even the wealthiest individuals and organizations have a limited amount of capital resources to work with. The constraints of a budget influence nearly all economic decisions, since the sum of all expenditures should never exceed the availability of capital. Cash availability is not always a direct limiting factor in economic decision making, since credit arrangements can allow people to spend more than they have. Even with credit purchase agreements, however, borrowers still take into account the ability to repay the debt over time, which brings the decision back to the issue of budgets and limited resources. Maximizing Value The fundamental basis of economic decision making is individuals' or organizations' desire to maximize benefits while minimizing costs. This balancing act is referred to as maximizing value, and it is a skill that takes practice to master. For individuals, value maximization decisions may include choosing between name-brand products and generic products, and choosing between small or bulk sizes. For a company, value maximization involves finding the lowest-cost suppliers that meet the company's quality standards, then determining the economic order quantity (EOQ) for each purchase. Economic order quantity is the perfect amount of a product or material to order at a time, taking advantage of quantity discounts while also keeping holding and transportation costs under control. Rational Decision Making Nearly all economic models and theories have one irreconcilable flaw: they assume that all economic decision makers act logically and rationally, taking all available information into account in an objective manner before making a decision. While it is true that most people and organizations attempt to do this, the reality of economic decisions is slightly different. Emotional theory in the stock market is a prime example of people's inability to make purely rational decisions on a consistent basis. Emotional theory states that everyone is influenced by his past experiences, expectations, emotional state and emotional memory when making a decision. People can place too much emphasis on certain information, such as recent news or bad news, which can skew their rational decision making as well. Costs Versus Benefits Costs and benefits are key factors that all economic decision makers take into account. Families, small business owners and others weigh the benefits and costs of decisions related to purchases, investments, sales and other expenditures before making a decision. This concept is similar to the idea of value maximization, with a distinct difference. Cost-benefit analyses assume that for every decision, something must be gained and something must be lost. Even in investment decisions, there is an opportunity cost—the cost of not using the money in another way—that must be considered. The goal of economic decision making is to make tradeoffs that allow you to gain more than you lose each time. References (2) Investopedia: Microeconomics: Factors of Economic Decision-Making Isnare.com: Economics and Decision Making Resources (1) Tutor2u.net: Markets and Market Systems About the Author David Ingram has written for multiple publications since 2009, including "The Houston Chronicle" and online at Business.com. As a small-business owner, Ingram regularly confronts modern issues in management, marketing, finance and business law. He has earned a Bachelor of Arts in management from Walsh University. Photo Credits money image by cherie from Fotolia.com Suggest an Article Correction Related Searches More Articles Economic System Types Factors Affecting Economic Development and Growth The Economy's Effects on Small Businesses The Effects of Macro and Microeconomics in Decision Making Also Viewed The Decision-Making Process in an Organization How Does the Federal Reserve Interest Rate Policy Affect You & Your Business? Factors That Affect Economic Development Push System Vs. Pull System Inventory Control What Are Internal & External Environmental Factors That