G20 promises to coordinate on economy, but little in way of concrete steps
| Reuters X Edition: United States Business Business Home Legal Deals Aerospace & Defense Finance Autos Reuters Summits Markets Markets Home U.S. Markets European Markets Asian Markets Global Market Data Indices Stocks Bonds Currencies Comm & Energy Futures Funds Earnings Dividends World World Home U.S. Special Reports Reuters Investigates Euro Zone Middle East China Japan Mexico Brazil Africa Russia India Politics Politics Home Election 2016 Polling Explorer Just In: Election 2016 What Voters Want Supreme Court Tech Technology Home Science Top 100 Global Innovators Environment Innovation Commentary Commentary Home Podcasts Breakingviews Breakingviews Home Breakingviews Video Money Money Home Retirement Lipper Awards Analyst Research Stock Screener Fund Screener Life Health Sports Arts Entertainment Oddly Enough Faithworld Pictures Pictures Home The Wider Image Photographers Focus 360 Video G20 promises to coordinate on economy, but little in way of concrete steps Africa América Latina ???? Argentina Brasil Canada ?? Deutschland España France India Italia ?? México ?????? United Kingdom United States World News | Mon Sep 5, 2016 | 1:20pm EDT G20 promises to coordinate on economy, but little in way of concrete steps left right Chinese President Xi Jinping and British Prime Minister Theresa May meet at the West Lake State House on the sidelines of the G20 Summit, in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China, September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Etienne Oliveau/Pool 1/19 left right French President Francois Hollande (C) speaks during his meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping (not pictured) at the West Lake State House on the sidelines of the G20 Summit, in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China, September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Etienne Oliveau/Pool 2/19 left right Chinese President Xi Jinping (R) shakes hand with British Prime Minister Theresa May before their meeting at the West Lake State House on the sidelines of the G20 Summit, in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China, September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Etienne Oliveau/Pool 3/19 left right German Chancellor Angela Merkel (C) looks on after her meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping (not pictured) at the West Lake State House on the sidelines of the G20 Summit, in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China, September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Etienne Oliveau/Pool 4/19 left right Chinese President Xi Jinping (R) shakes hand with German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schauble (L) before their meeting at the West Lake State House on the sidelines of the G20 Summit, in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China, September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Etienne Oliveau/Pool 5/19 left right A security agent reacts as a woman tries to have a pictures taken in front of Turkey's President Tayyip Erdogan (C) and his delegation after the closing of G20 Summit in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China, September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Damir Sagolj 6/19 left right Russian President Vladimir Putin (L) meets with U.S. President Barack Obama on the sidelines. Sputnik/Kremlin/Alexei Druzhinin/via REUTERS 7/19 left right France's President Francois Hollande looks as Russian President Vladimir Putin talks to Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan as leaders pose for a group picture. REUTERS/Damir Sagolj 8/19 left right International Monetary Fund (IMF) Managing Director Christine Lagarde holds a news conference after the closing of the G20 Summit in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, China, September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Stringer 9/19 left right Russian President Vladimir Putin meets with his Egyptian counterpart Abdel Fattah al-Sisi (R) on the sidelines of the G20 Summit in Hangzhou, China, September 5, 2016. Sputnik/Kremlin/Alexei Druzhinin/via REUTERS 10/19 left right Performers give a performance during an evening gala. REUTERS/Stringer 11/19 left right U.S. President Barack Obama holds a news conference at the conclusion of the G20 Summit in Hangzhou, China September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst 12/19 left right Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe attends a news conference during the G20 Summit in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China, September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Aly Song - RTX2O708 13/19 left right Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau arrives to attend the G20 Summit. REUTERS/Rolex dela Pena/Pool 14/19 left right U.S. President Barack Obama greets dignitaries before boarding Air Force One depart for a visit to Laos at the conclusion the G20 Summit, at Hangzhou Xiaoshan International Airport in Hangzhou, China September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst 15/19 left right China's President Xi Jinping speaks at a news conference after the closing of G20 Summit in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China, September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Damir Sagolj 16/19 left right Russian President Vladimir Putin meets with Chinese President Xi Jinping (not in picture) ahead of the G20. REUTERS/Wang Zhao/Pool 17/19 left right A woman takes picture with a mobile phone as China's President Xi Jinping speaks at a news conference after the closing of G20 Summit in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China, September 5, 2016. REUTERS/Damir Sagolj 18/19 left right Performers give a performance during an evening gala for the G20 Summit at West Lake in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China, September 4, 2016. Picture taken September 4, 2016. REUTERS/Stringer 19/19 By Kevin Yao and Michael Martina | HANGZHOU, China HANGZHOU, China Leaders from the world's top economies broadly agreed at a summit in China on Monday to coordinate macroeconomic policies, but few concrete proposals emerged to meet growing challenges to globalisation and free trade. At the two-day gathering in the scenic Chinese city of Hangzhou, the world's most powerful leaders also agreed to oppose protectionism, with Chinese President Xi Jinping urging major economies to drive growth through innovation, not just fiscal and monetary measures. "We aim to revive growth engines of international trade and investment," Xi said in a closing statement. "We will support multilateral trade mechanisms and oppose protectionism to reverse declines in global trade." Discussions at the meeting were distracted by North Korea test-firing three medium-range ballistic missiles in a defiant reminder of the risks to global security. North Korea has tested missiles at sensitive times in the past to draw attention to its military might. But Monday's launch risked embarrassing its main ally Beijing, which has gone to extraordinary lengths to ensure a smooth summit meeting. Beijing said it hoped relevant parties would avoid taking any actions that would escalate tensions. The United States called the launch reckless, while Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told U.S. President Barack Obama that it was unforgivable. On other fronts, the United States tried but failed to finalise a deal with Russia for a ceasefire in Syria on the sidelines of the summit. Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin had a longer-than-expected discussion about whether, and how, they could agree on a deal, a senior U.S. administration official said. But in talks earlier on Monday, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov were unable to come to terms on a ceasefire for the second time in two weeks, although they will meet again this week. The G20 called for the formation of a global forum to take steps to address steel excess capacity and encourage adjustments, the White House said in a statement, one of the controversial issues discussed at the summit. China produces half the world's annual output of 1.6 billion tonnes of steel and has struggled to decrease its estimated 300 million tonne overcapacity, and rising prices have given companies there an incentive to boost production for export. ISOLATIONIST TREND With the summit taking place after Britain's vote in June to exit the European Union and before the U.S. presidential election in November, G20 leaders had been expected to mount a defence of free trade and globalisation and warn against isolationism. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, who supports protectionist trade policies, has pulled into an effective tie with Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, erasin