Where are Asia's economies heading? - BBC News Accessibility links Skip to content Accessibility Help BBC iD Notifications BBC navigation News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Menu Search the BBC Search the BBC Search the BBC BBC News News navigation Sections Home Video World selected UK Business Tech Science Magazine Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures Also in the News Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say Asia selected China India Asia Asia Where are Asia's economies heading? Karishma Vaswani Asia business correspondent 4 September 2015 From the section Asia comments Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There's no denying that Asian investors were rightly concerned by the stock market falls You know that a stock market story has crossed into the mainstream once internet memes about it begin. Hash tags like "Greatfallofchina" started to fill my Twitter feed, and as each day brought more falls on the mainland Chinese stock markets (both the Shanghai Composite and Shenzhen CSI 300 saw major falls), each day also brought more panic for investors. Research houses put out daily reports trying to make sense of the fear and anxiety amongst investors as billions of dollars evaporated in front of their eyes. But where do Asian economies stand in all of this? And was all the fear and anxiety overblown and misplaced? After all, as one economist told me, "sometimes markets move so much faster than economists can update their data". Let's break it down and look at the facts Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China's government pumped an estimated $200bn into the stock market in an attempt to stop the slide There's no denying that Asian investors were rightly concerned by the stock market falls and recent yuan devaluation in China - there was a knock-on effect on commodity prices and some Asian currencies touched multi-year lows. Adding to concerns was what appeared to be incompetence on the part of the Chinese government after they failed to halt the market slide despite pumping in an estimated $200bn. Even the International Monetary Fund (IMF) came out and acknowledged that global growth would be affected by what happens in China - because it makes up such a large part of the global economy. And then there are low commodity and oil prices - a boon for Asian countries like India which import raw materials and oil, but not so great for countries like Malaysia which is a net exporter of oil. So what that does all of that mean for Asian growth? Well, many economists feel that Asia will ride it out. To find out why, we need to cast our eyes back to 2008 and the last financial crisis. According to Standard & Poor's (S&P), Asia's economic growth before the crisis was 5.5% - a fifth of which was driven by external demand from the US and Europe. During the global financial crisis of 2008, S&P says global trade collapsed and has never fully recovered. But all of this happened against a backdrop of increased growth rates for Asian countries such as India and Indonesia. Even China - although no longer at double digit growth - still posted a respectable 7% during this period. So how did that happen? Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China's government has been trying to lift domestic demand Well, one theory is that countries in Asia were buying and selling a lot more from each other than they were elsewhere. So regional trade between the ASEAN region and China grew at a steady clip over the last few years, buffering them from the slowdown in the US and Europe. Asian economies have piggy-backed on the success of China's two-decade long economic boom. Selling to China helped the fortunes of businesses in Jakarta, Hanoi and Singapore. Then there's also domestic demand - something that China is trying to transition its economy towards and which now accounts for 45% of China's gross domestic product (GDP). Increasingly, economists are seeing the trend of a domestic demand-led story in some of Asia's most populous economies such as Indonesia and India. But what policy makers didn't do during the good times was fix some inherent structural problems in their own countries. Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Infrastructure projects in many parts of China have been held up amid troubles with red tape and corruption Investment in infrastructure, for example, didn't keep up with the pace of growth, and red tape and corruption were also left unaddressed. Some economists believe that China's stock market volatility and the subsequent panic across global (not just Asia) markets was not necessarily grounded in economic fundamentals but driven more by investor sentiment. However, there are some very real concerns that Asian countries need to address as China's economy slows. Bright spots? There are bright spots for Asia - namely the improving US economy. America looks like it's getting stronger, and crucially the labour market is recovering. It is the biggest trading partner for most of Asia - so when US consumer demand recovers, so does Asian trade. But that could be scuppered by a potential increase in interest rates this month by the Federal Reserve. And China's economic health remains a question mark at the moment. But economists say China needs to slow down as it changes and rebalances its economy - and the government needs to manage growth expectations to keep this transition orderly. It is the "new normal" that China and the world needs to get used to. As the proverb says, a high tide lifts all boats. So when China and America's economies were doing well, Asia's was too. But when the tide goes out, those left standing better be ready to start picking up the pieces. For more on China's economic outlook, tune in to a special edition of Talking Business at the World Economic Forum in Dalian, China on 11 September. View comments Related Topics China economy Share this story About sharing Email Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin More on this story What progress has India's economy made in the past five years? 27 August 2015 What next for the global economy after China market woes? 25 August 2015 China counts cost of its Black Monday 24 August 2015 Worries about a full-blown crash could be a bit premature 21 August 2015 More Asia stories Top Stories New York bomb was 'act of terrorism' A bomb that exploded in New York City was a terrorist act, Governor Andrew Cuomo says, but no link to global groups has yet been found. 18 September 2016 India fury after deadly Kashmir attack 18 September 2016 World's oldest fish hooks found 18 September 2016 Features & Analysis Back from the dead How a deer thought extinct survived wars Quick repair The people who fix broken legs at the Paralympics 'I'm not a boy or a girl' Coming out as non-binary at 10 years old Heavy duty Should Donald Trump's weight be an election issue? Gone in three hours They went to bed as proud business owners but woke up jobless In pictures A look at the world of entertainment in the past week Harvest Moon Your pictures of a rare spectacle Seretse's story The inter-racial marriage that made front page news News navigation Asia Sections Asia China India Home Video World selected World Home Africa Asia selected Australia Europe Latin America Middle East US & Canada UK UK Home England N. Ireland Scotland Wales Politics Business Business Home Market Data Markets Economy Companies Entrepreneurship Technology of Business Business of Sport Global Education Tech Science Magazine Entertainment & Arts Health World News TV In Pictures Also in the News Special Reports Explainers The Reporters Have Your Say BBC News Services On your mobile On your connected tv Get news alerts Contact BBC News Explore the BBC News News Sport Weather Shop Earth Travel Capital iPlayer Culture Autos Future TV Radio CBBC CBeebies Food iWonder Bitesize Travel Music Earth Arts Make It Digital Taster Nature Local Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Parental Guidance Contact the BBC Advertise with us Ad 