Brazil is the sixth economy in the world in terms of tourism
06/04/2014 - 20:09
Study conducted in 184 countries points out how the sector has evolved in the country and provides forecasts for 2014, when 600 thousand foreign tourists should visit Brazil for the World Cup
The World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) – authority that brings together the biggest tourism entrepreneurs in the world – has published their annual study “Travel and Tourism: Economic Impact”, with data collected in 184 countries. Brazil stands out in sixth place, in a ranking that takes into consideration several indicators of the sector, like the importance of tourism for the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), job generation, foreign currency brought in by international tourists , as well as private and public investments.

Indeed, according to the study conducted by WTTC, in partnership with the University of Oxford, Brazil is the country with the highest growth forecast in relation to tourism sector investments in the world this year: 21.8% while the global average will stand at 5.7%. The sector is estimated to have attracted R$ 53 billion in resources in 2013.

“The data show the growing trend the country is going through with the staging of big events and this new international exposure", stated EMBRATUR acting president Vicente Neto. The estimate is that 600 thousand foreign tourists will visit Brazil during the World Cup.

The impact of tourism on the national economy should reach 9.5% of GDP (R$ 466.6 billion), a growth of 5.2% in relation to last year, which was of 9.2% of GDP (R$ 443.7 billion), according to WTTC. The figure is higher than the world average of 2.5%.

The economic impact study of the country’s tourism productive chain also points out other growth indicators for 2014. The sector should generate 8.9 million direct and indirect jobs, a 4.5% growth in relation to 2013, when the sector was responsible for 8.5 million jobs.

An increase of 2.5% is expected for the world in relation to last year. “According to the report, Brazil is the fifth highest direct and total job generator through tourism, which shows the importance of the sector to change the lives of the population in all of the country's regions", added Vicente Neto.
