IMF chief urges G-20 to fight slow economic growth
HANGZHOU, China -- Members of the Group of 20 major economies must use all available economic and financial tools to counter slumping global growth, the head of the International Monetary Fund said.

Speaking at the conclusion of the two-day G-20 summit in the Chinese city of Hangzhou on Monday, IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde said growth must benefit more people at a time when the world is seeing a backlash against trade and globalization. The multilateral lender signaled in a report last week that it expects to further reduce its forecast for global expansion this year from the 3.1% level projected in July.

"There must be more growth and growth must be more inclusive" to avoid rising anxiety among some who don't feel they are sharing in the benefits, Ms. Lagarde told reporters.


Daniel Funes de Rioja, president of the International Organization of Employers, noted Sunday that joblessness hit 197 million people world-wide in 2015, a trend fueled by globalization, automation and other challenges.


Antitrade rhetoric on the U.S. presidential campaign trail has undermined the White House's efforts to get the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal ratified by Congress. Across the Atlantic, British voters decided in June to upend decades of European economic integration by voting to leave the European Union.
Leaders of major global economies must do a better job convincing the public of the benefits that accrue from global trade, including higher productivity, greater choice in products and services and an opportunity to lift millions of people out of poverty, Ms. Lagarde said.

Beyond simply selling the benefits of trade, however, G-20 nations also must employ monetary and fiscal policy wisely wherever possible to spur demand, she added, as well as pursue structural reform to spur innovation and encourage entrepreneurship and job growth.

G-20 members have fallen short in a 2014 pledge to boost growth by increasing productivity. In 2014, members vowed to boost global growth by 2 percentage points by 2018 through a combined restructuring of their economies, but domestic politics have undercut those efforts, an aim that is increasingly illusory.

Ms. Lagarde also noted that China's currency, the yuan, has satisfied the necessary criteria to join five other currencies as part of the IMF's special drawing rights -- a type of international reserve used by central banks -- on Oct. 1.