The Economic Impact of the European Refugee Crisis  - The Atlantic The Atlantic Subscribe Search Menu The Economic Impact of the European Refugee Crisis Close Home Latest Most Popular Magazine Video Photo Writers News Politics Business Culture Science Technology Health Sexes U.S. Society Education Global Notes Projects Next America Events Books Shop Your AccountLog Out Log InCreate Account 2 Free Issues Try two trial issues of The Atlantic with our compliments. Claim now Follow Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Tumblr Pinterest RSS App Store See our Newsletters > The Economic Impact of the European Refugee Crisis The EC says 3 million people could arrive in Europe by the end of 2017, and add about 0.25 percent to the bloc's GDP. Refugees at Athens International Airport board an aircraft headed for Luxembourg on Wednesday. Andrea Bonetti / Greek Prime Minister's Office / AP Ads are being blocked For us to continue writing great stories, we need to display ads. Un-block Learn more Back Whitelist Please select the extension that is blocking ads. Ad Block Plus Ghostery uBlock Other Blockers Back Please follow the steps below Share Tweet Share Text Size Krishnadev Calamur Nov 5, 2015 News Three million refugees and migrants could arrive in Europe by the end of 2017, the European Commission says in its economic forecast for the fall of 2015. The report says the newcomers will have a “relatively small” economic impact in the medium term, with GDP rising between 0.2 percent and 0.3 percent above the baseline by 2020. But, the EC notes, that could vary by country—with destination countries—such as Germany—seeing a more significant impact than transit countries. Here’s more: The impact from higher public spending and a larger labour force with a skillset similar to the existing one in the EU is expected to: ? contribute to a small increase in the level of GDP this year and next, compared to a baseline scenario, rising to about ¼% by 2017. This however is less than the rise in the underlying population, implying a small, negative impact on GDP per capita throughout the period; and ? strengthening the outlook for employment (which is expected to improve gradually to about 0.3% more employed persons by 2017), in part from a wage response. The EC reports points out that, typically, non-EU migrants typically receive less in individual benefits than they contribute in taxes and social contributions. And their employment is the most important factor of net fiscal contribution. The influx—excluding failed asylum applications—will increase the EU’s population by 0.4 percent, the forecast says. The report further says: For Member States with an ageing population and shrinking workforce, migration can alter the age distribution in a way that may strengthen fiscal sustainability—yet, if the human potential is not used well, the inflow can also weaken fiscal sustainability. Moreover, while migration flows can partly offset unfavourable demographic developments, earlier studies have shown that immigration could not on its own solve the problems linked to ageing in the EU. Economic models examining the integration of 3 million extra people over the next two years notwithstanding, Europe is deeply divided over how to handle the most severe refugee crisis since World War II. More than 760,000 refugees and migrants have entered the EU in the first nine months of this year, but the bloc has only agreed on relocating 160,000 of them. Of these, as we reported Wednesday, 116 have been sent to their new homes.   About 1.2 million people have sought asylum in the EU since the start of 2014. Many of them are people fleeing the Syrian civil war, and unrest in Afghanistan, Iraq, Eritrea, and elsewhere. Others, however, are economic migrants, and will likely be turned away by Europe. Jump to Comments About the Author Share Tweet Share Latest Video A Clinic That Only Freezes Eggs A group of doctors in New York promises to cut the cost of the fertility procedure by super-specializing. Nicolas Pollock and James Hamblin Sep 15, 2016 About the Author Krishnadev Calamur is a senior editor at The Atlantic, where he oversees news coverage. He is a former editor and reporter at NPR and the author of Murder in Mumbai. Twitter previousHouse Passes Long-Term Transportation BillnextGeorge H.W. Bush Settles Old Scores With Cheney and Rumsfeld Most Popular Presented by Reuters A Simple Plan to Fix the Presidential Debates Norm Ornstein The integrity of the country’s political system is on the line. In 1960, the Nixon-Kennedy debates captivated the nation and by most accounts influenced the razor-thin outcome of the election. There was a hiatus in presidential debates until 1976, but they have become a campaign staple since, both a core part of the political discourse and one of the few moments when a larger share of rank-and-file voters pay attention to the real choices they face. This year they are more important than ever; when Donald Trump says the debates will break all records for viewership, he is likely correct. Americans uncertain about the choice they face between Clinton and Trump will be eager to see them face-to-face. To be sure, the interest is not just driven by questions about their issue positions or their approaches to governing. Many people will be looking for the political equivalent of WWE—professional wrestling, where Donald Trump himself once relished a spotlighted role, pitted against impresario Vince McMahon. Continue Reading Photo Illustration by Justin Metz* When Donald Meets Hillary James Fallows Who will win the debates? Trump’s approach was an important part of his strength in the primaries. But will it work when he faces Clinton onstage? The most famous story about modern presidential campaigning now has a quaint old-world tone. It’s about the showdown between Richard Nixon and John F. Kennedy in the first debate of their 1960 campaign, which was also the very first nationally televised general-election debate in the United States.   The story is that Kennedy looked great, which is true, and Nixon looked terrible, which is also true—and that this visual difference had an unexpected electoral effect. As Theodore H. White described it in his hugely influential book The Making of the President 1960, which has set the model for campaign coverage ever since, “sample surveys” after the debate found that people who had only heard Kennedy and Nixon talking, over the radio, thought that the debate had been a tie. But those who saw the two men on television were much more likely to think that Kennedy—handsome, tanned, non-sweaty, poised—had won.   Continue Reading Ted S. Warren / AP What It Feels Like to Die Jennie Dear Science is just beginning to understand the experience of life’s end. “Do you want to know what will happen as your body starts shutting down?” My mother and I sat across from the hospice nurse in my parents’ Colorado home. It was 2005, and my mother had reached the end of treatments for metastatic breast cancer. A month or two earlier, she’d been able to take the dog for daily walks in the mountains and travel to Australia with my father. Now, she was weak, exhausted from the disease and chemotherapy and pain medication.   My mother had been the one to decide, with her doctor’s blessing, to stop pursuing the dwindling chemo options, and she had been the one to ask her doctor to call hospice. Still,  we weren’t prepared for the nurse’s question. My mother and I exchanged glances, a little shocked. But what we felt most was a sense of relief. Continue Reading AP ‘Women Atheists Are Genuinely Considered Monsters’ Emma Green Americans have long been suspicious of nonbelievers. Misogyny, nativism, and racism have often been tied up in their fear. In general, Americans do not like atheists. In studies, they say they feel coldly toward nonbelievers; it’s estimated that more than half of the population say they’d be less likely to vote for a presidential candidate who didn’t believe in God. This kind of deep-seated suspicion is a long-standing tradition in the U.S. In his new book, Village Atheists, the Washington University in St. Louis professor Leigh Eric Schmidt writes about the country’s early “infidels”—one of many fraught terms nonbelievers have used to describe themselves in history—and the conflicts they went through. While the history of atheists is often told as a grand tale of battling ideas, Schmidt set out to tell stories of “mundane materiality,” chronicling the lived experiences of atheists and freethinkers in 19th- and 20th-century America. Continue Reading Touchstone Pictures Dead Poets Society Is a Terrible Defense of the Humanities Kevin J.H. Dettmar The beloved film's portrayal of studying literature is both misleading and deeply seductive. I’ve never hated a film quite the way I hate Dead Poets Society. I expect that them’s fighting words, at least in some quarters; at least I hope they are. Because I’m trying to pick a fight here. I was in the last year of my English literature PhD program in the summer of 1989, when Dead Poets Society was released. My younger brother Scott, who really didn’t have the money to spare, slipped my wife Robyn and me a ten-dollar bill (these were simpler times) and told us he’d watch our kids so we could go out to see it. No one in my family quite understood what I wanted to do for a living or, having finished my bachelor’s degree, why I’d spend seven more years in school to do it; but having seen Dead Poets Society, Scott believed he finally had an idea of what I wanted to do with my life, and more importantly, why. Continue Reading Sarah Laval/Flickr OCD Is Not a Quirk Fatima Tipu The term "obsessive-compulsive" has become a jokey shorthand, to the detriment of people who actually suffer. While shuffling through a Washington, D.C.-area metro station recently, I noticed a large ad for the technology company Brocade plastered on the wall: Obsessive Compulsive Reorder (n.): The need to buy expensive IP networking gear again and again. This is, of course, an attempt at a cheeky play on obsessive-compulsive disorder, in which sufferers have compulsions to do the same things over and over. Companies and people alike frequently evoke the mental disorder with lighthearted puns or references just like that one. Misuse of the term “OCD” has become popular, leading to misunderstandings revolving around the disorder itself. The examples are endless: Obsessive Compulsive Cosmetics offers high-end makeup; Buzzfeed routinely publishes articles like "33 Meticulous Cleaning Tricks for the OCD Person Inside You" and "19 Things That Will Drive Your OCD Self Insane;" searching “OCD” on Pinterest yields few results on the actual disorder; and social media is littered with countless hashtags like #ObsessiveChristmasDisorder, #ObsessiveCastleDisorder, and #ObsessiveCrossFitDisorder. Continue Reading David McNew / Quanta The Case Against Reality Amanda Gefter A professor of cognitive science argues that the world is nothing like the one we experience through our senses. As we go about our daily lives, we tend to assume that our perceptions—sights, sounds, textures, tastes—are an accurate portrayal of the real world. Sure, when we stop and think about it—or when we find ourselves fooled by a perceptual illusion—we realize with a jolt that what we perceive is never the world directly, but rather our brain’s best guess at what that world is like, a kind of internal simulation of an external reality. Still, we bank on the fact that our simulation is a reasonably decent one. If it wasn’t, wouldn’t evolution have weeded us out by now? The true reality might be forever beyond our reach, but surely our senses give us at least an inkling of what it’s really like. Continue Reading Radu Sigheti / Reuters How Much Do Parents Matter? Uri Friedman “Parents in every culture at a given moment think they’re doing the optimal thing for their kids.” In 1930, the American anthropologist Margaret Mead published a study of how people in Papua New Guinea raised their children. The world is one giant laboratory and human development one grand experiment, she reasoned. So why not compare parenting across cultures? “The way in which each human infant is transformed into the finished adult, into the complicated individual version of his city and his century[,] is one of the most fascinating studies open to the curious minded,” Mead wrote. “[W]e have been prodigal and blind in our use of these priceless records,” but the curious-minded could change that, by seeking to “read the answers written down in the ways of life of different peoples.” In other words: All over the world, parents are trying to figure out how to parent—and they have been for millennia. Their practices and theories might offer valuable lessons. Continue Reading Brian Snyder / Reuters The Curse of Hillary Clinton’s Ambition Clare Foran Some voters seem to believe the Democratic nominee cares too much about winning. Hillary Clinton can’t be trusted because she’ll do anything to win. That’s what several participants in a focus group of thirty undecided voters moderated by Republican strategist Frank Luntz on Friday in Alexandria, Virginia seemed to believe. At least some of the group of Democratic, Republican and Independent-leaning voters felt the first woman to win the presidential nomination of a major U.S. political party was too ambitious. “She’s lied again and again and again in the pursuit of power,” one man warned. “This has been her entire life’s work, it seems like, has been building up to this moment, so she doesn’t have any shots left.” “She wants it so much she’ll say anything, she’ll do anything,” a woman chimed in, adding: “the people behind her will say anything or do anything. Do I want those kind of people in power? Oh, please no.” Continue Reading Rashid Umar Abbasi / Reuters The Explosion in Manhattan Matt Ford and Krishnadev Calamur The cause of the blast, which injured 29, remains unclear, but New York Mayor Bill De Blasio labels it “an intentional act.” What we know on Sunday, September 18: —A device detonated in Manhattan Saturday night, injuring 29 people in an explosion New York Governor Andrew Cuomo described Sunday as “an act of terrorism.” None of the injuries are considered to be life threatening, and all those wounded were released from the hospital Sunday. —A second device—an apparent pressure-cooker bomb—was found later in the night in Manhattan. The New York Police Department’s bomb squad removed the device early Sunday. —There are no suspects yet. Updated at 11:44 a.m. EST A powerful explosion went off in Manhattan around 8:30 p.m. on Saturday, injuring 29 people, shattering windows, and prompting widespread street closures. Police found a second device just hours later a few blocks away. That device did not go off. Continue Reading The Origin of Dogs Jackie Lay, Daniel Lombroso, and Ed Yong How and when wild wolves transformed into domestic pets has always been mysterious—until now. Watch Video What Happens Inside a Dying Mind? Jackie Lay and Gideon Lichfield Science cannot fully explain near-death experiences. What makes people believe they visited heaven? Watch Video The Pimps and Prostitutes of 1970s Times Square Katherine Wells A bartender's camera captures the seedy street life of retro New York. Watch Video More Popular Stories Show Comments Subscribe Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price. State Alabama Alaska Alberta American Samoa APO/FPO-Africa APO/FPO-Canada APO/FPO-Europe APO/FPO-Middle East APO/FPO-Americas APO/FPO-Pacific Arizona Arkansas British Columbia California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Manitoba Marshall Islands Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Micronesia Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Brunswick New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York Newfoundland Newfoundland-Labrador North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Isles Northwest Territories Nova Scotia Nunavut Ohio Oklahoma Ontario Oregon Palau Pennsylvania Prince Edward Island Puerto Rico Quebec Quebec Rhode Island Saskatchewan South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virgin Islands Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Yukon Territories Fr