Istanbul Travel Guide - Europe's Best Destinations Welcome to the official Europe's Best Destinations website Explore Europe Best destinations 2016 Christmas markets Ski Resorts Romantic destinations Hidden gems Best beaches Beautiful bridges Best National Parks Best Shopping Centers More inspiration Destinations Plan your stay Book your flight Compare low cost flights to Europe countries then book your airline tickets directly by clicking through to agency and airline sites. Find your hotel Compare all Europe hotel deals at once. Up to 80% off. View maps, photos and guest reviews. Our tool compare 1000+ travel sites. Tours & Activities Discover Europe’s biggest collection of things to do and guided tours. Whatever you want to do you’ll find it here. Best price guarantee ! Menu Trending searches : Best beaches Zadar Ski resorts Porto Hotels Christmas 2016 Amsterdam Romantic Milan Welcome to ... the Dordogne Valley in France... An ideal destination for nature lovers ! Discover Best Christmas markets 2016 Dive into our selection of the best Christmas markets in Europe. Discover Porto Travel Guide The colourful streets of Porto and the Portuguese sweetness of life are waiting for you ! Discover ❤ Join us on : Home Destinations Aachen Aberdeen Aix-en-Provence Aix-Les-Bains Alicante Algarve Amsterdam Antibes Antwerp Athens Arles Avignon Azores Barcelona Basel Belfast Belgrade Bergen Berlin Biarritz Bielefeld Bilbao Birmingham Bologna Bolzano Bonn Bordeaux Bratislava Bristol Brno Brussels Budapest Cadiz Cannes Cesis Colmar Cologne Copenhagen Cordoba Dijon Dordogne Valley Dublin Dresden Dubrovnik Duisburg Dusseldorf Edinburgh Florence Frankfurt Gdansk Geneva Gijon Glasgow Gothenburg Graz Hamburg Hannover Helsinki Innsbruck Inverness Istanbul Istria Kaunas Kotor Krakow Krk Lausanne Le Havre Leipzig Liepaja Lille Linz Lisbon Ljubljana Locarno London Lourdes Lucerne Luxembourg Madeira Madrid Malaga Malta Manchester Marseille Metz Miskolc Milan Montreux Montpellier Mont Saint-Michel Mullerthal Munich Nantes Nice Nicosia Novi Sad Nuremberg Opatija Oslo Oxford Palermo Palma de Mallorca Paris Pisa Plovdiv Porto Poznan Prague Reykjavik Riga Rijeka Rome Rotterdam Rouen Sainte Maxime Saint-Tropez Salzburg San Sebastian Sarejevo Sintra Sibenik Skopje Sorrento Split Stari Grad Stirling Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tampere The Hague Thessaloniki Toulouse Valencia Venice Ventspils Vilnius Vienna Vicenza Warsaw Wroclaw York Zadar Zagreb Best of Europe European Best Destinations 2016 Europe Best Destinations 2015 Best beaches in Europe 2015 2014 Best hidden gems in Europe Best summer music festivals Best Romantic Destinations in Europe Best destinations to celebrate new year's eve in Europe Best Christmas City Breaks in Europe Best wine destinations in Europe Best castles in Europe Best thermal destinations in Europe Most beautiful landscapes in Europe Best amusement parks in Europe Best celebrities destinations Best destinations for sales in Europe Portugal Quiz Europe Vs the world Beautiful piers in Europe Best events in Europe Best trendy events in Europe Best beach huts in Europe Best amazing events in Europe Best museums in Europe Best shopping centers in Europe Best Royal Family Palaces Best destinations to celebrate Chinese New Year in Europe Extreme points of Europe Best lighthouses in Europe Best Gay pride in Europe Most beautiful bridges in Europe Best greenhouses in Europe Best amazing monuments in Europe Best abandoned places in Europe Best city Parks in Europe Best flea markets in Europe Best funiculars in Europe Best Wellness Hotels in Europe Best national parks in Europe Seven Wonders of Europe Best subway stations in Europe Best railway stations in Europe Best hotel's suites in Europe Best gay friendly hotels in Europe Best pools in Europe Europe Best Destinations 2014 Europe Best Destinations 2013 Christmas markets European Best Christmas markets 2015 Best Christmas destinations in Europe Christmas in Germany Christmas in the United Kingdom Christmas in France Aachen Antwerp Avignon Baden-Baden Barcelona Basel Bath Berlin Bern Birmingham Braunschweig Brixen Brussels Budapest Colmar Cologne Dordrecht Dresden Dubrovnik Dusseldorf Ghent Glasgow Graz Hasselt Helsinki Innsbruck Leeds Leipzig Leuven Liege Lille London Lucerne Madrid Manchester Mulhouse Newcastle Nuremberg Odense Oxford Paris Prague Rothenburg Salzburg St Gallen Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tallinn Vienna Vilnius Worms Zagreb Europe's best Christmas markets 2014 Ski European Best Ski Resorts 2015 Europe's best ski resorts 2014 AlpedHuez Åre Baqueira Beret Courchevel Engadin Samnaun Gstaad Ischgl Kitzbühel La Plagne Les Arcs Saalbach-Hinterglemm Saint François Longchamp Saint-Gervais-Mont-Blanc Sölden Skiwelt Wilder Kaiser - Brixental Val Thorens Travel Guide Porto Things to do Mercado do Bolhao market Porto Ribeira and Miragaia World of Discoveries Porto Fondation Serralves Porto Electrico Porto old tram Torre dos Clerigos Tower Porto Se Catedral Porto Rua Santa Catarina Porto Funicular dos Guindais Porto Miradouro da Victoria Porto Miradouro da Serra do Pilar Teleferico de Gaia Cable Car Sao Bento Train Station Jardim do Palacio de Cristal Porto Parque da Cidade Porto Passeio dos Clerigos Porto Foz do Douro Porto Cais de Gaia Porto Belo Mercado Livraria Lello Bookshop Porto Miguel Bombarda, Porto's creators area A Vida Portuguesa Porto Cafe Majestic Porto Casa da Musica Porto Best beaches in Porto and Gaia Best bars and restaurants in Porto Six Bridges Cruise Porto Porto Helicopter tour Classico Porto Tour The Region Aveiro Braga Bom Jesus de Braga Sameiro Guimaraes Hotels Pousada Mosteiro de Guimaraes NHotel Collection Porto Batalha Grande Hotel do Porto The Yeatman Hotel Porto Porto InterContinental Hotel Pestana Palacio do Freixo Porto Flattered Porto Apartements Aparthotel Oporto Sol Porto Sense Apartments Flights Travel tips Gallery Bordeaux Top things to do in Bordeaux Hidden Bordeaux Bay of Arcachon Saint-Emilion Vineyards Plan your stay in Bordeaux Zagreb and Croatia Dolac market Cathedral Marijina Usnesenja Botanical Garden Archeological Museum Ilica Street Maksimir Park Ban Jelacic Square Zagreb's Funicular Green horseshoe Upper town old part of Zagreb Palace Hotel Jarun Lake Museum of broken relationships Lotrscak tower Kino Europa Cafe Museum of Contemporary Art Peter Preradovica's Square Kino Europa Shop Mirogoj Cemetery Avenue Mall Oktogon Gallery Hinterland Tkalciceva street Agava Restaurant Slejme Zadar's sunset Plitivice Lakes Boutique Hostel Forum Ugljan island City of Zadar Petcrane beach St Anastasia Bell Tower Nin Luka beach Tvrdava Sv. Mihovil Pula Arena City Centre Pula Park Plaza Histria Ribarska Koliba Restaurant Locanda Blu Restaurant Hotel Lone Rovinj Motovun Mulini Beach Discover Opatija Istanbul Ortaköy Mosque Alleyways of Ortaköy Bosphorus Five Stars Rumelian Castle Çengelköy İskelesi Sumahan on the Water Restaurant Tapasuma Maiden’s Tower Cruise over the Bosphorus Beylerbeyi Palace Grand Bazaar Blue Mosque Hagia Sophia Spice market Galata Bridge restaurants Street food Gulhane Park Topkapi Palace Galata Bridge Eyüp Eyüp Sultan Mosque Eyüp Market Cafe Pierre Loti Taksim Square Cafe francais Urban Suites Swissotel Bosphorus Kanyon shopping mall Barbaros Parki Istiklal Caddesi Perspectives on Istanbul Galata Tower Galata Tower Restaurant Çankaya Caddesi Princes Islands Abandoned building Panorama Buyukada Madeira Mercado dos Lavradores Funchal old town Cathedral of Funchal Cable car to Monte Blandy's wine lodge Venda Velha Madeira Tradicional Museu De Arte Contemporanea Boat trip in Santa Maria de Colombo Igreja do Colegio Faja dos Padres Faja dos Padres Hotel & restaurant Monte Palace Tropical Garden Igreja Da Nossa Senhora do Monte Camara de Lobos Restaurante do Forte Ristorante Villa Cipriani Il Gallo d’Oro Carros Cestos The Vine Hotel Reid's Palace Cabo Girao Pico do Ariero Belvedere Boca da Encumeada Sao Vicente Caves Seixal waterfall Santana houses Madeira Jeep Tour Madeira Theme Park Ribeiro Frio - Balcões Paul da Serra Porto Moniz Quinta do Furao Restaurant Quinta do Furao Hotel Miradouro da Portela Porto Santo Line Pico do Castelo Beaches of Porto Santo City center of Porto Santo Pier of Porto Santo Porto Santo Golf Porto Santo Hotel & Spa Porto Santo beach restaurant Hotels Flights About Contact Press Download Membership Ortaköy Mosque Alleyways of Ortaköy Bosphorus Five Stars Rumelian Castle Çengelköy İskelesi Sumahan on the Water Restaurant Tapasuma Maiden’s Tower Cruise over the Bosphorus Beylerbeyi Palace Grand Bazaar Blue Mosque Hagia Sophia Spice market Galata Bridge restaurants Street food Gulhane Park Topkapi Palace Galata Bridge Eyüp Eyüp Sultan Mosque Eyüp Market Cafe Pierre Loti Taksim Square Cafe francais Urban Suites Swissotel Bosphorus Kanyon shopping mall Barbaros Parki Istiklal Caddesi Perspectives on Istanbul Galata Tower Galata Tower Restaurant Çankaya Caddesi Princes Islands Abandoned building Panorama Buyukada Istanbul Travel Guide Discover the best things to see and do in Istanbul ⇓  ISTANBUL TRAVEL GUIDE ⇓ The city of our dreams Visit of Istanbul The Bosphorus Sultanahmet The Golden Horn Modern City The Princes' Islands Plan your stay When to go Getting there Moving around Istanbul tourist offices   SEE DO SHOP EAT DRINK SLEEP ISTANBUL The city of our dreams In our ideal city, the city of our dreams perhaps, flows a river. The Bosphorus, river of eternal golden reflections, lively yet soothing for both poor and rich alike, tells the story of a great trading town, of conquests and discoveries, of emperors, sultans, poets, travellers, artists… Here time is constantly shifting between the European and Asian side where, so it seems, their souls still linger and where the breath of ancient and new civilizations burn with desire for the future.   In the city of our dreams, there are hills offering different perspectives ; it is a breathing city full of life, with a wide variety of topographies, neighbourhoods and atmospheres. Let us take you through these neighbourhoods : the historic district of Fatih with its beautiful mosques, the spice market, the Grand Bazaar, the district of Beyoğlu with neighbourhoods such as Besiktas or Cihangir with their more modern feel but where history has left many traces.   Add to this the beautiful Sea of Marmara and the several small islands of the Adalar district dominated by wooden luxurious buildings where cars are replaced by horse-drawn carriages and bicycles and where you can savour a peaceful day just a short ferry ride from Istanbul.   Then, there is the sun, exceptional cuisine, shopping, outstanding hotels, artistic treasures, the amazing hospitality and kindness of the locals. What a feast for the palate, the eyes and the soul !   Our promise : you will love Istanbul and it will sing in you for a very long time.   Welcome aboard !     | THE BOSPHORUS With more than 15 million people spread over 5,343 km2, Istanbul is one of the largest megacities in the world. The fastest, most enjoyable - and romantic - way to get an idea of this vast and diverse expanse, is invariably to take a cruise along the Bosphorus. Touts will try and sell you tickets for 15 or 20 euros. Pay a third of the price under the Galata Bridge and on the banks of Besiktas, where you can get your ticket for around 5 euros at official counters. You can opt for a two-hour or five-hour cruise as you wish. The shorter trip alone is packed with so much to see : the Dolmabahce Palace, the stunning Ortaköy mosque, the Rumelian Castle with its stunning views of the Bosphorus, Anadolu Hisari (Castle of Anatolia), the Küçüksu Palace, Beylerbeyi Palace, the two bridges over the Bosphorus, magnificent 5 star palaces along its shores and the sumptuous villas and beautiful wooden houses. Enjoy the difference !   Tip: make as many stops as you like and pick up the next boat to continue your journey. Bosphorus Five Stars DRINK Beylerbeyi Palace DO Rumelian Castle DO Cruise over the Bosphorus DO Maiden's Tower SEE Ortaköy Mosque DO Alleyways of Ortaköy SHOP Tapasuma EAT Çengelköy İskelesi SEE Sumahan on the Water SLEEP     | SULTANAHMET, THE HISTORIC CITY The Golden Horn separates the south of Istanbul often considered the "old Istanbul" from the modern quarters of the city. At the junction of these two parts of the city is the famous Galata Bridge, a place not to be missed and, in many respects, the living touristic heart of Istanbul and a focal point of your stay.   Depending on what you wish to do and your ability to find your way around the area, you will tend to concentrate on the iconic locations rather than the area per se, but the notion of "neighbourhoods" will be, however, particularly useful if you want to move easily in the city, especially by public transport. Old Istanbul is quite simple to understand, bounded by the Sea of Marmara to the south, the Bosphorus to the east, the district of Beyoğlu in the north and the district of Zeytinburnu in the west.   Istanbul is rich in religious buildings and museums ; among the few absolutely not to be missed are the Topkapi Palace, Hagia Sophia, the Sultanahmet Mosque (The Blue Mosque), the Grand Bazaar, the Spice market, the Galata Bridge or the park Gülhane. The best known "postcard" Istanbul is a melting pot where different cultures and religions meet. This site offers priceless historical riches with its magnificent mosques and their unmistakable architecture of tranquil grandeur.   To move in this area take the tram and then walk back (3TL one way). The Blue Mosque DO Galata Bridge surroundings EAT Grand Bazaar  SHOP Hagia Sophia DO Spice market SHOP The street vendors EAT Gülhane Park DO Topkapi Palace DO     |THE GOLDEN HORN The Golden Horn is a natural harbour that once housed the city’s shipyards. It is 7.5 km long and 750 meters wide. There is a large concentration of places of interest on both banks and we have grouped them in sections devoted to the old and modern Istanbul.   In this section we are particularly interested in the start of this Golden Horn with the Galata Bridge, as well as its end with the charming Eyüp neighbourhood and the café Pierre Loti. Loti was a famous French writer who fell in love with Turkey and with this place in particular on the heights of Eyüp cemetery on the foothills of the Golden Horn. It is not very easy to get to but you can access it by boat on a small more private cruise, by water taxi or simply by bus. In any case the friendly and exquisitely polite Istanbul’s residents will gladly help you find your way. Eyüp SEE Eyüp Market SHOP Eyüp Sultan Mosque DO Galata Bridge SEE Café Pierre Loti SEE     | ISTANBUL MODERN CITY It would be wrong to describe the modern city of Beyoğlu (the word itself means "modern city") as being more "western" but it is of course remarkably different from the historical area on the other side of the Galata Bridge. A modern city limited only to high rise buildings and brand new gigantic malls would be of little interest, but Beyoğlu still bears the marks of a huge diversity of people and cultures which have crossed the land throughout its history; it is a breathtaking iconic city with a unique atmosphere, unique architecture and unique memories.   From Karaköy to Taksim you will discover the Galata Tower and its magnificent views across Istanbul, Tünel and its old tram and also a "Paris of the Roaring Twenties" rebuilt from scratch by the municipality. See the Istiklal Caddessi, a 1000 m long pedestrian street filled with modern shops and restaurants with a pretty little red tram adding a touch of nostalgia to the scene. The Cihangir with its San Francisco style feel offers a unique atmosphere and magnificent views of the Istanbul bridge and its illuminations. The district of Kabataş can be the starting point for many discoveries (cruise on the Bosphorus, crossing to the Princes islands, starting point of the tram and metro). In Besiktas you will will find the Istanbul of business and also of luxury with its palaces, 5 star hotels and luxury boutiques. Be prepared to be enchanted and smitten by the many facets of a great beautiful atmospheric city. Taksim Square SEE Barbaros Parki SEE Galata Tower DO Café français DRINK Galata Tower Restaurant EAT Swissotel Bosphorus SLEEP Urban Suites SLEEP Kanyon shopping mall SHOP Istiklal Caddesi SHOP Perspectives on Istanbul SEE     | THE PRINCES' ISLANDS Princes' Islands are an archipelago of nine islands in the Sea of Marmara to the south-east of Istanbul. Not all of them are inhabited and your boat will probably stop in the two largest, Buyukada and Heybeliada.  Enjoy a priceless calm as cars and motor vehicles are prohibited. The only means of transport are bicycles, coaches and your feet.   Princes or members of the imperial family and aristocrats were imprisoned in monasteries on the island during the Byzantine period, hence their name today. According to the legend their eyes were gouged out so that they could not return to Istanbul. The Ottomans also got rid of stray dogs on the islands but apparently did not blind them and many of them did return to Istanbul.   With its 5.36 km ² Buyukada is the largest of the islands and home to beautiful houses. You can take a charming carriage ride but the island is somewhat industrialized and the routes lose much of their quietude because of the carriages heavy traffic. To explore the island you also have the possibility to hire bikes. We, your friendly companions, advise you to walk, to move away from the beaten track and established trails, and climb up the island for views full of beauty, ancient monasteries or amazing abandoned buildings. Breathe in the calm of these islands and thoroughly enjoy Istanbul, one of the few destinations offering you sun, a great river, a great culture and history and, for the icing on the cake, these beautiful small islands nearby.   To reach the islands you can take a Vapür (reckon on 5 TL for this one hour and forty-five minutes journey) or hovercraft (45 minute trips for 10 TL). Plan to get there early enough and check schedules in advance on the website of the public company which organises the trips (www.ido.com.tr). When purchasing your token do not worry if you see the word " adalar " displayed , it is the name of the district comprising these islands and the boat will stop on the two main islands Buyukada and Heybeliada.  Prepare a picnic of your favourite turkish delicacies as the food on the islands is forgettable. We recommend that you visit during the week rather than at weekends : it is quieter and more enjoyable. Walk on the island DO Abandoned building SEE Çankaya Caddesi DO Panorama Buyukada EAT     | PLAN YOUR STAY       When to go? Weather in Istanbul. Istanbul’s weather is a happy blend of Continental and Mediterranean climate, rather mild and pleasant all year round. Never too hot or too cold this temperate climate can, however, be moody at times and take you by surprise. Don’t forget to bring a lightweight jacket just in case. We advise you to get there especially in spring or late summer if you want to enjoy pleasant temperatures and avoid the crowds. Many people also choose the end of December to celebrate the New Year and it is not uncommon to have a white Christmas in Istanbul!   Getting there : There are two airports in Istanbul that welcome their international guests, the Ataturk International Airport on the European side and the Sabiha Gokcen International Airport located on the Asian side.   Istanbul offers direct flights to any airport city in Turkey while the advanced transportation network of the region allows easy access to any city in the country.   After your arrival at the airport, you can reach the city center by taking one of the shuttles or public transportation facilities leaving to Taksim or Kadikoy outside of the exit gates.   Alternatively, passengers can reach many areas of the city by taking the subway from the airport and a short ride on the tram afterwards. Furthermore, the taxis stationed outside of the exit gates will drive you to your destination by taking the most convenient routes.   Passengers who prefer sea transportation may consider travelling on one of the world famous cruise ships that stopover in Istanbul.   www.ataturkairport.com www.sabihagokcen.aero Get Driving Directions from: To: Calculate Print Directions Reset route   Moving around : Tram, Metro, Funicular, bus, boat, cable car, taxi, you have the choice!   The public transport infrastructure is fairly well organized and very safe, so use it without fear. For the metro, funicular, cable car, tram or boat you will need to buy tokens (the price varies from 3 TL / metro / funicular / cable and 9TL for longer boat trips). They can be purchased from dispensers in all stations.   Using buses can be a bit of a challenge and we suggest that only those of you who are good at map reading and used to asking your way around should use them. Identifying the bus number and where to stop can be tricky. You will need to buy your tickets from the ticket offices (no tokens and no cash).   In any case, taxis are pretty cheap in Istanbul and short trips may even be cheaper than public transport! Website : www.istanbul-ulasim.com.tr   Istanbul : tourist offices location Get Driving Directions from: To: Calculate Print Directions Reset route Official tourism portal of Turkey : Website : www.goturkey.com | Facebook : facebook.com/GoTurkey Travel Guide Istanbul Best of Europe Best Destinations 2016 Best ski resorts in Europe Best Christmas markets Best beaches in Europe Cheap hotel deals in Europe Cheap flights to Europe European Best Destinations About us Contact us Membership E-tourism Barometer Download Press Connect with us Subscribe to discover latest travel inspiration, tips and deals from European Best Destinations. Loading Explore Europe Best amusements parks Roller coaster, ghost train, big wheel... Most amazing monuments The strangest & most amazing monuments in Europe. Abandoned places The most amazing abandoned places in Europe. Most beautiful beaches A selection of the best beaches in Europe. Beautiful beach huts The most beautiful beach huts of the European coastline. The 15 best bridges Discover the most beautiful bridges in Europe. Best trendy events Take part to the most exclusive events in Europe. Best city parks Europe offers beautiful parks for your enjoyment. Most beautiful castles Visiting these castles is like diving into our history. Best events Discover our selection of the top events in Europe. Extreme points Beautiful destinations that will help you to better understand Europe. Summer music festivals Be prepared to live unique experiences ! Best flea markets Discover the most amazing flea markets in Europe. Best funiculars Top funiculars that bring you to the most beautiful places in Europe. Gay friendly places Be yourself in the best gay friendly destinations in Europe. Beautiful greenhouses Top greenhouses which are as beautiful as the plants they contain. Beautiful landscapes Travel far away while staying in Europe. Best hidden gems The finest unknown destinations in Europe. Beautiful lighthouses Discover a selection of the not to be missed lighthouses in Europe. Best museums Discover the most impressive museums in Europe. Best national parks Best national parks that are as green as beautiful ! New Year's Eve Discover the best destinations to celebrate New Year in Europe. Beautiful piers Discover the most beautiful piers in Europe. Romantic destinations Discover the best romantic destinations in Europe. Best Royal Palaces The top luxurious castles of the Royal Families. Best subway stations The most incredible subway stations in Europe. Best shopping centers Discover the “temples of shopping” in Europe ! Railway stations Take your ticket for the best railway stations ! Wine destinations Wine tells the whole story of a region. Best ski resorts The 10 best ski resorts in Europe selected by travellers. Best destinations 2016 The 15 best places to visit selected by travellers. Christmas destinations Best Christmas holiday destinations in Europe. Christmas Markets The best Christmas markets selected by travellers. Sales destinations You want to do shopping at the best prices ? Most beautiful pools The most amazing swimming pools in Europe. Wellness hotels Take care of yourself in the most beautiful Wellness hotels. Best hotel's suites The most luxurious and gorgeous hotel suites in Europe. Seven wonders So many treasures are waiting for you to discover them. Join Us On facebook twitter Google + pinterest instagram Discover Europe's best destinations Colmar Colmar is really a condensed version of the Alsace region. London You can't fail to be excited by London's amazing attractions. Berlin Berlin projects itself as a young, dynamic & cosmopolitan city. Azores Discover the charm of these nine charismatic islands. Rome A region with a great deal to offer: history, nature, good food... Prague Discover one of the most beautiful cities in the world! Algarve A place where the climate is mild & sunny all year round! Lisbon There are so many things to see and do in Lisbon! Madeira Islands Discover these enchanted islands… happiness is so near! Porto The colourful streets of Porto are waiting for you! Paris Paris is one of the world’s few really legendary capitals. Milan Milan is the hub of Italian culture, music, media & sports. Madrid The Spanish capital makes everyone feel right at home. Zagreb A large city which managed to stay romantic and safe. Zadar Welcome to Zadar European best destination 2016 ! Brussels Brussels, the capital of 500 million Europeans, is waiting for you. Bordeaux A fascinating town, rich in history, culture and gastronomy. Barcelona A perfect destination for culture, leisure, shopping, nightlife... Athens It is not only an open-air museum but also a contemporary metropolis. Amsterdam Discover five things you probably didn't know about the city. Stari Grad Stari Grad is located in the sunniest island in the Adriatic. Krk Island One of the most attractive tourist destinations in Croatia Metz Metz is the perfect sized town for a short break. San Sebastian San Sebastian is a wonderful city to get lost in and explore. Sainte-Maxime Sainte-Maxime is ideally located in the heart of the Saint-Tropez bay. Plovdiv Plovdiv is a leading cultural, religious, wine and shopping destination. Novi Sad Novi Sad, the city on the Danube, is the experience you must not miss. Nantes A vibrant & young metropolis often rewarded for its top-quality of life. Mullerthal Welcome in the Mullerthal Region – Luxembourg’s Little Switzerland. Montpellier Montpellier is an exceptional destination, rich in character. Miskolc There are numerous historical and cultural values hiding in the city. Le Havre Rewarded by the Unesco for its architecture and modernity. Kotor A cultural and natural world heritage site located in Montenegro. Aix-les-Bains A lovely destination nestles beside the largest natural lake in France. Best hidden gems The finest unknown destinations in Europe. Best national parks Best national parks that are as green as beautiful ! New Year's Eve Discover the best destinations to celebrate New Year in Europe. Romantic destinations Discover the best romantic destinations in Europe. Wine destinations Wine is a product like no other, it tells the whole story of a region. Best destinations 2016 The 15 best places to visit selected by travellers. Christmas destinations Best Christmas holiday destinations in Europe. Sales destinations You want to do shopping at the best prices ? Privacy Policy | Sitemap Log out | Edit   Home Destinations Aachen Aberdeen Aix-en-Provence Aix-Les-Bains Alicante Algarve Amsterdam Antibes Antwerp Athens Arles Avignon Azores Barcelona Basel Belfast Belgrade Bergen Berlin Biarritz Bielefeld Bilbao Birmingham Bologna Bolzano Bonn Bordeaux Bratislava Bristol Brno Brussels Budapest Cadiz Cannes Cesis Colmar Cologne Copenhagen Cordoba Dijon Dordogne Valley Dublin Dresden Dubrovnik Duisburg Dusseldorf Edinburgh Florence Frankfurt Gdansk Geneva Gijon Glasgow Gothenburg Graz Hamburg Hannover Helsinki Innsbruck Inverness Istanbul Istria Kaunas Kotor Krakow Krk Lausanne Le Havre Leipzig Liepaja Lille Linz Lisbon Ljubljana Locarno London Lourdes Lucerne Luxembourg Madeira Madrid Malaga Malta Manchester Marseille Metz Miskolc Milan Montreux Montpellier Mont Saint-Michel Mullerthal Munich Nantes Nice Nicosia Novi Sad Nuremberg Opatija Oslo Oxford Palermo Palma de Mallorca Paris Pisa Plovdiv Porto Poznan Prague Reykjavik Riga Rijeka Rome Rotterdam Rouen Sainte Maxime Saint-Tropez Salzburg San Sebastian Sarejevo Sintra Sibenik Skopje Sorrento Split Stari Grad Stirling Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tampere The Hague Thessaloniki Toulouse Valencia Venice Ventspils Vilnius Vienna Vicenza Warsaw Wroclaw York Zadar Zagreb Best of Europe European Best Destinations 2016 Europe Best Destinations 2015 Best beaches in Europe 2015 2014 Best hidden gems in Europe Best summer music festivals Best Romantic Destinations in Europe Best destinations to celebrate new year's eve in Europe Best Christmas City Breaks in Europe Best wine destinations in Europe Best castles in Europe Best thermal destinations in Europe Most beautiful landscapes in Europe Best amusement parks in Europe Best celebrities destinations Best destinations for sales in Europe Portugal Quiz Europe Vs the world Beautiful piers in Europe Best events in Europe Best trendy events in Europe Best beach huts in Europe Best amazing events in Europe Best museums in Europe Best shopping centers in Europe Best Royal Family Palaces Best destinations to celebrate Chinese New Year in Europe Extreme points of Europe Best lighthouses in Europe Best Gay pride in Europe Most beautiful bridges in Europe Best greenhouses in Europe Best amazing monuments in Europe Best abandoned places in Europe Best city Parks in Europe Best flea markets in Europe Best funiculars in Europe Best Wellness Hotels in Europe Best national parks in Europe Seven Wonders of Europe Best subway stations in Europe Best railway stations in Europe Best hotel's suites in Europe Best gay friendly hotels in Europe Best pools in Europe Europe Best Destinations 2014 Europe Best Destinations 2013 Christmas markets European Best Christmas markets 2015 Best Christmas destinations in Europe Christmas in Germany Christmas in the United Kingdom Christmas in France Aachen Antwerp Avignon Baden-Baden Barcelona Basel Bath Berlin Bern Birmingham Braunschweig Brixen Brussels Budapest Colmar Cologne Dordrecht Dresden Dubrovnik Dusseldorf Ghent Glasgow Graz Hasselt Helsinki Innsbruck Leeds Leipzig Leuven Liege Lille London Lucerne Madrid Manchester Mulhouse Newcastle Nuremberg Odense Oxford Paris Prague Rothenburg Salzburg St Gallen Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tallinn Vienna Vilnius Worms Zagreb Europe's best Christmas markets 2014 Ski European Best Ski Resorts 2015 Europe's best ski resorts 2014 AlpedHuez Åre Baqueira Beret Courchevel Engadin Samnaun Gstaad Ischgl Kitzbühel La Plagne Les Arcs Saalbach-Hinterglemm Saint François Longchamp Saint-Gervais-Mont-Blanc Sölden Skiwelt Wilder Kaiser - Brixental Val Thorens Travel Guide Porto Things to do Mercado do Bolhao market Porto Ribeira and Miragaia World of Discoveries Porto Fondation Serralves Porto Electrico Porto old tram Torre dos Clerigos Tower Porto Se Catedral Porto Rua Santa Catarina Porto Funicular dos Guindais Porto Miradouro da Victoria Porto Miradouro da Serra do Pilar Teleferico de Gaia Cable Car Sao Bento Train Station Jardim do Palacio de Cristal Porto Parque da Cidade Porto Passeio dos Clerigos Porto Foz do Douro Porto Cais de Gaia Porto Belo Mercado Livraria Lello Bookshop Porto Miguel Bombarda, Porto's creators area A Vida Portuguesa Porto Cafe Majestic Porto Casa da Musica Porto Best beaches in Porto and Gaia Best bars and restaurants in Porto Six Bridges Cruise Porto Porto Helicopter tour Classico Porto Tour The Region Aveiro Braga Bom Jesus de Braga Sameiro Guimaraes Hotels Pousada Mosteiro de Guimaraes NHotel Collection Porto Batalha Grande Hotel do Porto The Yeatman Hotel Porto Porto InterContinental Hotel Pestana Palacio do Freixo Porto Flattered Porto Apartements Aparthotel Oporto Sol Porto Sense Apartments Flights Travel tips Gallery Bordeaux Top things to do in Bordeaux Hidden Bordeaux Bay of Arcachon Saint-Emilion Vineyards Plan your stay in Bordeaux Zagreb and Croatia Dolac market Cathedral Marijina Usnesenja Botanical Garden Archeological Museum Il