Why presidents shouldn’t get credit or blame for the economy - MarketWatch Latest News Dow 18,124 -88.68 -0.49% Nasdaq 5,245 -5.12 -0.10% S&P 500 2,139 -8.10 -0.38% 12:08 P.M. ET Updated Bomb outside empty building caused Manhattan explosion 12:06 P.M. ET This hot hoodie maker thinks leggings will be even bigger 12:03 P.M. ET Once again, the rosy view on U.S. economy wilts 12:00 P.M. ET Our phones are distracting us to death — but we can fight back 11:54 A.M. ET Billy Corgan wants to make a smash in pro wrestling 11:50 A.M. ET Where the world’s billionaires are and how they got there 9:14 A.M. ET Updated When are the 2016 Emmy awards? 9:11 A.M. ET Updated The really bad money decision millennial homeowners are making 9:11 A.M. ET Updated Chicago Bungalow? Baltimore Row House? L.A. Ranch? The ‘typical’ home varies by city 9:10 A.M. ET Updated Why farmland may become a more popular neighborhood amenity than a golf course 9:10 A.M. ET Updated Even the CEO of Zillow thinks you should ask a real-estate agent what your home is worth 9:09 A.M. ET Updated Why it’s gotten so hard for many people to get a mortgage 9:09 A.M. ET Updated Does having an NFL team in your city boost housing prices? 9:09 A.M. ET Updated Women are better at paying bills, so why is it so hard for them to get a mortgage? 9:08 A.M. ET Updated Relief may be on the horizon for the Sandwich Generation if elder-care leave catches on 9:06 A.M. ET Updated 4 things American parents get dead wrong about raising kids 9:06 A.M. ET Updated Driver’s ed industry is dying even before Tesla and Uber wipe it out completely 9:06 A.M. ET Updated This trait may explain why Danes are the happiest people on earth 9:05 A.M. ET Updated The smart way to start at community college — and make it to a degree 9:05 A.M. ET Updated The nation’s top colleges (at least according to one influential source) Log In Home News Viewer Video Radio, Podcasts First Take Games Portfolio My MarketWatch News Viewer Markets Markets Stream U.S. Europe/Middle East Emerging Markets Asia Canada Columns Market Snapshot Movers & Shakers The Tell Currencies Futures Movers Pre-Market News Tools Earnings Wall Markets Overview IPO Calendar Earnings Calendar Currency Tools Futures Contracts Market Screener Hulbert Interactive Investing Stocks Mutual Funds ETFs Options Bonds Commodities Currencies Futures Hedge Funds/Insider Trades Getting Started MarketWatch Adviser Columns Options Trader Revolution Investing Tools Stock Screener Funds Finder ETF Screener Options Screener IPO Calendar Earnings Calendar More... Trading Deck . Personal Finance 10 Things Big Spender Real Estate Spending & Saving Taxes Columns The Moneyologist Brett Arends Bill Bischoff Amy Hoak Chuck Jaffe Jennifer Openshaw Jennifer Waters Tools Funds Finder Today's Rates Retirement RetireMentors Encore Taxes Retire Here, Not There How-to Guides Social Security Estate Planning Events Columns Robert Powell's Retirement Portfolio Andrea Coombes's Working Retirement Tools Retirement Planner How long will my money last? Economy Federal Reserve Capitol Report Economic Report Columns Darrell Delamaide Irwin Kellner Rex Nutting Tools Economic Calendar Real Estate Location Scouts realtor.com My MarketWatch Watchlist Alerts Games Log In Home Economy & Politics Rex Nutting Get email alerts Opinion: Why presidents shouldn’t get credit or blame for the economy By Rex Nutting Published: Aug 31, 2016 9:50 a.m. ET Share Why neither Hillary Clinton nor Donald Trump can turn this economy around on a dime Reuters There’s no reason to think either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump could do much to increase economic growth. By RexNutting Columnist Every presidential campaign is fought, to some extent, over the recent performance of the economy. Voters who are generally satisfied with the economy tend to return the incumbent party to the White House, while voters who feel victimized by the economy tend to support the opposition party. The state of the economy doesn’t determine every election, of course, but it plays a large enough role that some economists and political scientists have invented election prediction models based largely on economic factors. This year, Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump will be arguing about much more than the economy, but the economy could be the determinative factor. Bernie Sanders turns focus on defeating Trump Bernie Sanders says in an online speech that he will focus his campaign on defeating Donald Trump, the presumptive Republican candidate for president, and press Hillary Clinton to promote a liberal policy agenda. Photo: Bernie Sanders Whether she likes it or not, Clinton is running, in part, on Barack Obama’s economic record, including strong job growth (14 million more since 2010), and the improvement in household finances due to the rebound in the stock market and in home values. She says she will “fight for us” by continuing most of his center-left policies (except for a few items, like rejecting the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal he negotiated). Trump, of course, says the economy isn’t working at all. The economy is barely growing, and inequality has increased. Millions still haven’t found work, and many feel like things are getting worse for them and for their children. He would tear up the trade deals, build a wall to keep out the immigrants, and make America great again (whatever that means). Clearly, the economy matters in the election of a president. The question that’s rarely answered is whether the president matters in the performance of the economy. Does a president really have much control over the economy? Should the president get the credit when it’s good, or take the blame when it’s bad? The answer is: No, generally not. Except during extreme events such as the Great Depression or the Great Recession, the president doesn’t have much influence on the performance of the economy in the medium term (defined here as four years). The president simply isn’t powerful enough to alter the course of the American economy. Given the checks and balances in our federal republic and capitalistic economy, the president simply isn’t powerful enough to alter the course of the American economy except at the margins. Let’s think for a moment about what determines economic growth. In the short run, the economy is constrained by how much money people, businesses and government agencies are willing to spend (known as effective demand) and by the existing stock of things such as factories, offices, stores, roads, computers, workers, human capital, financial capital, institutions, markets, resources, and technology (known as the supply-side of the economy). The president doesn’t control any of these variables. In a slowdown, it’s the demand side that comes up short. We have the capacity to supply lots of goods and services (and keep people employed), but demand is weak. In this kind of emergency, the government can temporarily stimulate more demand by lowering interest rates, or by cutting taxes, or by increasing government spending. All of these measures effectively increase incomes and get spending going again so people can go back to work. Lowering interest rates is the most common response to weak demand, but that’s the province of the Federal Reserve, not the White House. Most presidents have refrained — at least in public — from putting pressure on the Fed to lower rates. Fiscal stimulus is another matter, but it’s not something the president can do on his or her own. The president needs Congress to change tax or spending policies, and that approval is not automatic. Presidents George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton both wanted a fiscal stimulus during the 1991 recession and the ensuing “jobless recovery,” but Congress said no. Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama were able to get Congress to go along with their requests for fiscal stimulus, but Obama’s 2009 stimulus plan was smaller than his advisers wanted, primarily because they thought Congress wouldn’t approve a penny more. Obama managed to extend some tax cuts as the recovery lagged, but he couldn’t stop Congress from imposing fiscal restraint on the economy with its aus