6 factors shaping the global economy in 2016 | World Economic Forum Agenda Initiatives Reports Events About Español ?? ??? Login to TopLink We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our site. By continuing to use our site, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Agenda Initiatives Reports Events About TopLink login ?? Español Global Regional Industry Commentary and analysis shaping our Global, Regional and Industry agendas Emerging Technologies 12 robots that could make (or break) the oceans Competitiveness 10 must-read economics stories of the week Employment and Skills Scientists studied 5,000 gifted children for 45 years. This is what they learned about success Read more Inequality Is political polarization holding back the US? Economy 22 maps that explore modern America Employment and Skills There's a skills mismatch in the US, but maybe employers aren't looking hard enough Read more Technology The reason a re-boot is the go-to computer fix Entrepreneurship These famous inventors helped changed our world, but not all their inventions were a success Artificial Intelligence and Robotics What artificial intelligence will look like in 2030 Read more Read our reports on the broad range of global issues we’re seeking to address Annual Report 2015-2016 7 September 2016 Alternative Investments 2020: The Future of Capital for Entrepreneurs and SMEs 18 August 2016 Disruptive innovation in financial services: A blueprint for digital 12 August 2016 More reports Learn about our activities tackling the most significant global challenges through public-private collaboration Shaping the Future of Consumption Digital Economy and Society Economic Growth and Social Inclusion Education, Gender and Work Energy Environment and Natural Resource Security Financial and Monetary Systems Food Security and Agriculture Health and Healthcare Information and Entertainment International Trade and Investment Long-Term Investing, Infrastructure and Development Mobility Production Latest activity Tropical Forest Alliance 2020 6 Jan 2016 PACI / IU 6 Jan 2016 Promoting Global Financial Inclusion 6 Jan 2016 More initiatives Learn more about our events which work to shape the Global, Regional and Industry agendas Upcoming Event India Economic Summit 2016 6-7 October 2016 New Delhi, India Past events Annual Meeting of the New Champions 2016 26-28 June 2016 Tianjin, People's Republic of China World Economic Forum on Latin America 2016 16-17 June 2016 Medellin, Colombia World Economic Forum on ASEAN 2016 1-2 June 2016 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia More events Committed to improving the state of the world About Us Our Mission Leadership and Governance Our Members and Partners Communities History Klaus Schwab Media Contact Us Careers World Economic Forum USA Code of Conduct Privacy and Terms of Use How to get involved Communities Careers Regional Agenda Digital Economic Growth and Social Inclusion Economy 6 factors shaping the global economy in 2016 Written by Anders Borg, Chair, World Economic Forum’s Global Financial System Initiative Wednesday 23 December 2015 Written by Anders Borg Chair, World Economic Forum’s Global Financial System Initiative Regular Author Published Wednesday 23 December 2015 Share Latest Articles Reinventing leadership – 10 imperative leadership aptitudes you will need as a systemic leader Michael Buehler 16 Sep 2016 12 robots that could make (or break) the oceans Nishan Degnarain and Douglas McCauley 16 Sep 2016 10 must-read economics stories of the week Regular Author Jennifer Blanke 16 Sep 2016 More on the agenda Anders Borg, Sweden’s former Finance Minister, gives his perspective on what to look out for in the economic year ahead, from reforms in China to the threat of Brexit. 2016 will be a challenging and difficult year for the global economy. Global growth is picking up somewhat after a number of weak years. A global GDP growth rate of 3.5%, the latest IMF forecast, is lower than the 4.5% average that preceded the decade before the great recession, but it is better than the average over the past five years. The US and UK recoveries are self-sustained, but weaker than during a normal post-crisis period. In the Eurozone, expansionary policy is still called for and further steps to support growth could be expected. In the US and Europe alike, investments levels are low, productivity growth is very weak and the export sector is only providing a small contribution to the recovery. At the same time growth is slowing in Asia and world trade is likely to grow at a slower rate than GDP. It is a recovery without a real upturn in the business cycle, threatened by a range of factors. One: the year of political populism? 2016 could become a year marked by political populism. Weak economic activity and low productivity growth mean that real wages and consumption are likely to continue to be disappointing. When reality is coming short of expectations, there are grievances to be exploited. Donald Trump, Jeremy Corbyn, Alexis Tsipras, Nigel Farage, Marine Le Pen, Bernie Sanders, Pablo Iglesias Turrión and many others are taking advantage of stagnating living standards and increasing economic insecurity. A number of factors are reinforcing populism and discontent. Job security is undermined by global competition, digitalisation and robotisation. New work opportunities ahead are more likely to be short-term contracts, part-time jobs, self-employment without full social benefits and full job security. The so-called “Uber” class of insecure workers is a new reality to be dealt with. The demands for education, expert knowledge and social skills have taken a quantum leap upwards and increased the threshold for people seeking to enter the labour market. Unionisation is on the retreat. Increased insecurity in labour markets, the weaker negotiation power of the unions and low productivity are setting narrow limitations for wage negotiations and real wages. In a period when most advanced economies needs strong governments to implement far-reaching structural reforms, voters are favouring short-termism and asking for simple solutions. To restore political trust, governments needs to deliver real wage increases, more jobs and better welfare. This can only happen if growth is revitalised by reforms to increase labour market flexibility and to improve the business climate. There is a clear risk that the fear of political populism will undermine the way leaders deal with long-term challenges and thereby creates a vicious negative spiral where disappointment further weakens trust in governments. Two: global insecurity and the refugee crisis US presidential elections will be a major political event during 2016. From a global perspective, the key issue is whether the next president will be able to restore the US as a global force for stability after the apparent lethargy of President Obama’s administration. Another period of a United States that lacks direction in its foreign policy, combined with a reluctance to engage with military forces in difficult regions, will create deep security problems. Europe needs to step up its ability to deal with emerging security issues, although that is an unlikely outcome without leadership from the USA. The tragic events in Paris have created a momentum for a coalition bringing the US, France, the United Kingdom and, unexpectedly, also Russia together for a push-back of the Daesh ambition of establishing a Caliphate. It seems necessary for the US and Europe to be ready to actively counter extremist Islamic terrorism in the Middle East, North Africa and Afghanistan in the medium term as well as in the long run. To leave large areas and regions under the control of Daesh, Boko Haram, Al-Shabaab or the Taliban is a global security risk. The refugee crises in Europe will remain a major factor during 2016. UN estimates indicate that over one million people have entered Europe with the intention of claiming asylum during 2015. On a global level, UNHCR has stated that the number of forcibly displaced people reached almost 60 million in 2015, an increase of some 40% since 2014. Germany, Sweden, Hungary, Austria and Italy have been the most affected countries in Europe (Hungary and Sweden with the highest per capita numbers, and Germany with the highest number in absolute terms). In the last few weeks, the inflows have decreased. Partly that could be due to temporary harsh weather. The fact that the European Union has made a broader political agreement with Turkey could also be a factor. In addition, Daesh will face a stronger counter insurgency efforts during 2016. If Daesh is pushed back and insecurity reduced in Syria and Iraq that is likely to further improve the situation. It should however be pointed out that some 4 million refuges from the conflict in Syria-Iraq remain in the neighbouring countries (in Turkey 2.2 million, in Lebanon 1.1 million and in Jordan 650,000 people). The historical pattern has been that it takes a few years before the refugee numbers normalise after a period of conflict. The intensified challenge from the Taliban in Afghanistan could also increase the number of people claiming asylum in Europe (about 100,000 people have come from Afghanistan to Europe during 2015). The number of refugees coming to Europe is most likely going to be lower in 2016, but they will remain much higher than the long-term average for both 2016 and 2017. The short term economic consequence of the high migration flows will be somewhat higher GDP growth in Germany and Sweden, due to a temporary increase in public expenditure. The consequences of a growing population is positive in the long term, reducing the demographic pressure of an ageing population. Increased internal globalisation, to use the term coined by Angela Merkel, is potentially a more diversified work force and a more creative economy. In the short term, the task of integrating such a large number of people will be a challenge. In Sweden the historical experience has been that people from Syria have integrated well into the labour market. However, to be able to integrate a large number of people coming from a much less developed country (GDP per capita in Syria was 5000 USD before the conflict, which is slightly more than 10% of the level in Sweden and Germany) will be complicated. To strengthen integration, countries need to increase labour market flexibility, boost spending on early education efforts and active labour market measures and streamline welfare services, but both in Germany and Sweden this will be very difficult. Looking ahead it is likely that unemployment will be somewhat higher in 2017 and 2018. and this will dampen wage pressure and inflation pressure somewhat. Three: the referendum on Brexit A key factor shaping Europe’s political future in the decades to come is the referendum on the UK’s membership of the EU. Referendums always come with uncertainty. Unexpected events can push the results in any direction. The best guess is that the United Kingdom remains in the European Union. The economic and political consequences of a British move towards isolationism are devastating. The political balance in Europe would shift from the idea of a Europe open to free trade and dynamic markets, turning the balance towards a more bureaucratic and centralising perspective. Europe and the UK would both be in a much worse position in the competition with the United States, China, Japan and India. For the UK, the long-term economic consequences are likely to be deeply concerning. Without full participation in the European Union, London’s role as the financial centre of Europe would sooner or later be put into question. The populists are creating the impression that it is costless for the UK to move away from Europe, but that is a dangerous illusion. The Danish referendum set off a wave of financial turmoil back in 1992 and the implications of Brexit would be more far-reaching. One factor to bear in mind is that voters often seems to favour the status quo when uncertainty is high. When almost all economic experts, the traditional political parties and the larger parts of the business sector are arguing for a “yes”, this should be the most likely outcome, but in the age of populism uncertainty remains high until the ballots have been counted. Four: Russia’s role in the world Another political factor contributing to financial uncertainty is Russia. At the end of 2015, President Putin has rapidly repositioned Russia from being the outsider rocking the boat to a constructive force dealing with Daesh in Syria and Iraq. The repositioning is obviously fragile. Putin has in no way backed down in principle from the aggressive stance in the conflict in eastern Ukraine. So far the Russian intervention seems to have provided more support for President Al-Assad than actual damage to Daesh. In the long run, Russia is likely to be a declining power under the current regime. Low fertility rates and premature alcohol-related death among men, combined with excessive dependence on natural resources rather than productivity and innovations, are undermining the long-term prospects. But in the short run, any neighbouring country that shows signs of weakness face the risk that Russia will try to exploit the situation. President Putin has been a master of navigating the age of populism and could revert to the anti-western rhetoric at any point of time. For the coming years investments in Russia will be perceived as risky. A solid recovery in Russia will only come if foreign investors become convinced that the U-turn in Russian politics of late 2015 is the first step towards a Russia that is open for co-operation and ready to reform its archaic economic structures. Until then most investors will hibernate and hope for a thawing in the Russian tundra. Five: weak growth, choppy markets Global growth will be weak next year. Furthermore, we are also likely to see substantial turmoil in financial markets. The combination of the recovery in the US and, even if weaker, in Europe, as well as a deceleration of growth in China is creating uncertainty for the financial markets. The extraordinary monetary policy measures over the last few years have pumped short-term money into the global financial system. In combination with low liquidity in markets, partly due to the new regulatory structures that are reshaping banking everywhere, this has set the tone for turbulence. The key factor deciding the degree of turbulence will be inflation in the US and reforms in China. If inflation is picking up in the US and the Federal Reserve is perceived to be behind the curve, this could push US rates higher and reinforce the appreciation of the dollar. The best guess is that inflation will remain subdued in the US. A weak consumer recovery and very low resource utilisation is unlikely to give a demand-driven inflation push. The potential for accelerated productivity growth out of the broad technology-driven shift that is now taking place should also keep cost pressure under control. The traditional models that the Federal Reserve and other central banks are using to forecast inflation are backward-looking and are unlikely to capture the fast moving technological development that we are now seeing. On the back of higher than expected productivity it is also possible for the unemployment rate to gradually go lower without pushing a traditional wage and inflation spiral. 2016 could potentially be a year when the implications of the digital transformation become a dominant theme. The potential is clearly there. Many start-up companies have been printing very strong growth numbers for years, but the macro-economic impact has so far been on the weaker side because the growth has come from a low level. Every year this is gradually changing. When more and more people do their shopping and banking online that will also mean that the broader implications becomes more pronounced. The pressure on existing firms to adapt to increased competition is likely to mean that prices and profit margins are being squeezed. A more problematic impact could be that employment growth is held back during the recovery. So far that has not been the case in the advanced economies. The labour market in the US has been strong, but that has also been the trend in the United Kingdom, Germany