Brazil’s tech-sector bright spots beckon as it begins to emerge from long economic crisis  |  TechCrunch Menu Search Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Flipboard LinkedIn Google+ RSS More Youtube Flipboard LinkedIn Google+ RSS Got a tip? Let us know. News Channels Startups Mobile Gadgets Enterprise Social Europe Asia Crunch Network Unicorn Leaderboard Gift Guides All Topics All Galleries All Timelines Video Shows Apps News Crunch Report Disrupt SF 2016 Gadgets Reviews Interviews TC Features All Shows All Videos Events TechCrunch Events Disrupt Startup Battlefield Crunchies Meetups International City Events Hackathon Include NFL’s 1ST and Future TC Davos 2016 News About Mobile World Congress CES All Events CrunchBase Trending Facebook Apple Olympics News Startups Mobile Gadgets Enterprise Social Europe Message Us Search TechCrunch Search TechCrunch Search Search × Hi! You are about to activate our Facebook Messenger news bot. Once subscribed, the bot will send you a digest of trending stories once a day. You can also customize the types of stories it sends you. Click on the button below to subscribe and wait for a new Facebook message from the TC Messenger news bot. Thanks, TC Team Disrupt LondonStartup Battlefield Applications Now Open For Disrupt London Apply Today Finance CrunchBase Pro brings new search and analysis features for power users CollegeBacker publicly launches its college savings account advisory service Square Cash users can now spend their balance with a virtual debit card Browse more... HealthTech Here’s your shot at free exhibit space at TechCrunch’s Healthtech Pavilion at Disrupt London Hardware Battlefield Alum Health2Sync raises $3 million Series A round iBeat raises $1.5 million to build a heart monitor that people will actually want to wear Browse more... fintech Square Cash users can now spend their balance with a virtual debit card AI can make your money work for you Digit, a simple app to help you save, launches Android app Browse more... edtech Ranku’s eCollege optimizer bought by edtech giant for ~$25 million With a new CEO, Y Combinator will wind down fellowships and start a MOOC Apple stays in school, donating 54,500 iPads to students and teachers Browse more... brazil Brazilian pet-sitting marketplace DogHero raises $3.1 million Corporate venture growth in Brazil is another sign of a mature tech ecosystem WhatsApp blocked in Brazil again Browse more... Crunch Network Brazil’s tech-sector bright spots beckon as it begins to emerge from long economic crisis Posted 21 hours ago by Romero Rodrigues (@romerorodrigues) 0 SHARES Next Story Catching Pokémon with the new Pokémon Go Plus Romero Rodrigues Crunch Network Contributor Romero Rodrigues is a managing partner at Redpoint eVentures, the Brazilian-focused arm of the Silicon Valley venture firm Redpoint. More posts by this contributor: Latin America’s chronic inefficiency could drive more O2O commerce growth How to join the network Brazil showed off its cultural brilliance, spirit and national pride on a grand stage during the recent Olympic Games in Rio. Despite a prolonged macroeconomic crisis, the world’s ninth largest economy is showing positive signs that it may roar back as an investment magnet and innovation powerhouse — especially driven by fast-growing tech sectors that have continued to deliver growth rates of up to more than 20 percent in the face of overall disappointing GDP data. Just days after the Olympics closed in Brazil, the country has refocused its efforts to speed past its political scandals that hinder investor confidence in the future of Latin America’s biggest economy. The final decision to impeach former Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff gave many a sigh of relief from the political power struggle that’s consumed the nation for far too long. With only two months into President Michel Temer’s term, he’s been a “big hit with investors,” according to a Bloomberg news feature published in late July. The country’s benchmark equity index has risen about 60 percent this year, and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) reports that consumer and business confidence seems to have bottomed out. A Morgan Stanley study released in mid-summer indicates that investor confidence and interest in emerging markets like Brazil is on the rise — especially in the wake of the uncertainty and economic fallout following the Brexit referendum vote. In a story about the study, The BRICS Post reports that the IMF “says confidence in the Brazilian economy is slowly reawakening” and the organization has forecast positive growth for Brazil during 2017. BayBrazil, a Silicon Valley-based not-for-profit organization dedicated to bringing together the Brazilian-American ecosystem, hosted its annual conference at the Googleplex in Mountain View on September 16. The event attracts entrepreneurs, tech executives, investors, scholars, government representatives and private-sector leaders. Speakers from companies like Alibaba, Alphabet, Instagram/Facebook, Silicon Valley Bank, Stripe and Uber presented, and the conference’s main session theme was: “Navigating uncertainty: Meet Brazilians who are building solid businesses while riding the crisis.” In spite of the country’s downturn, tech spending in Brazil is rising and entrepreneurship is flourishing. Corporate venture capital growth and a more mature ecosystem is further boosting the prospects for the country’s economic engine to rev back up again, driven by technology sector innovation. Five of the hottest tech sectors in Brazil right now are: agritech meets IoT (now emerging, edtech, fintech, healthtech and marketing tech. Tech spending in Brazil is rising and entrepreneurship is flourishing. Below are some of the outstanding companies that are being nourished and built in Brazil today, and why the five tech sectors they operate in promise rapid growth and strong investor returns. Five of Brazil’s tech-sector bright spots and some fast-growth startup stars Agritech Brazil is a major agricultural powerhouse. It helps feed the world. The sector’s shown continued strong growth over the past few years. Brazil ranks among the world’s five largest agricultural producers and exporters. During the summer, Microsoft and U.S. biotech company Monsanto announced a new partnership to invest in agricultural technology startups in Brazil. Qualcomm is also investing in that fund. Some local VC Funds are getting more specialized in the space, as well. Brazil startups in the agritech space are pioneering new approaches with commercial IoT sensors, mobile technology, big data and biotech R&D to improve crop yields, increase profits and prove sustainable practices for global retail brands.  Some of the agritech sector’s most promising innovators include: AgroSmart: Combines IoT sensors, telemetry and data analysis applied together to improve irrigation control and climate prediction. BovControl: Enables data collection and analysis that improves performance on meat, milk and genetics production. Its technology spans mobile, cloud innovation and IoT. Horus: Engineers drones for farming that are designed for Brazilian farm sizes. Promip: Develops macro organisms for biological control in tropical crops. Edtech The Brazilian government has made improvement of the country’s education system a top priority, and the edtech industry has been booming as a result. Many startups are adapting tools already tested in other countries and designing them to suit Brazil’s cultural norms and needs. A key benefit to improving education is increasing the quality and readiness of the country’s workforce as Brazil’s economy improves and more jobs are created in the process. Some of the edtech sector’s most promising innovators include: AppProva: Develops an online platform for test practice to improve student performance. Geekie: Creates adaptive learning solutions used by more than three million students. Quero Education: Provides online marketplace that connects students and colleges. Passei Direto: Pioneers an academic network to improve students’ education outcomes. Fintech Brazil’s banking and financial services systems have become quite sophisticated, one of the unexpected outcomes from the 500 percent average inflation per year during the 1990s. However, the market is very concentrated. Almost 80 percent of the two trillion dollars in deposits are concentrated in only five banks, two of them state-owned. The sector has been mired in paperwork, regulations and bureaucracy, which has helped lead to expensive credit for consumers and businesses. For instance, bank loans are a complicated and time-consuming process. Many consumers applying for loans on average pay eight to nine times the interest amount they should because those loans aren’t secured, which is a common practice in the U.S. and other regions. The emergence of new fintech startups in the country is driving more transparency, speed, automation, mobile access/management and customer self-service to the country’s financial services sector. Some of the fintech sector’s most promising innovators include: BankFacil: Develops a secured loans platform to reduce lending rates. Iugu: Markets a mobile payment platform that benefits both consumers and sellers. Neon: Provides a digital bank service using mobile devices and apps for millennials. NuBank: Promotes a credit card service that can be managed via mobile phones. Healthtech Brazil is among the world’s fifth most populous countries and its rapidly growing middle class is demanding even more high-end healthcare. A higher life expectancy and its “baby boomer” population is driving more healthcare demand. Successful innovators will continue to contribute to the broader growth and economic vitality in Brazil. Medical technology is advancing at a rapid pace, making healthtech a leading investment sector. According to a PwC MoneyTree report, VCs invested $12.1 billion in 969 deals in the first quarter of 2016; the software industry received the most investment dollars. The second highest investment amount went to the life sciences sector. A number of Brazilian startups have emerged to address a big healthtech opportunity. Some of the healthtech sector’s most promising innovators include: Dr. Consulta: Combines data analysis and online technology to improve healthcare. iClinic: Develops a cloud ERP software solution to benefit doctors and clinics. Memed: Provides a digital prescription platform and app for doctors and patients. Marketing tech Related Articles Glassdoor acquires Brazil's Love Mondays to expand into Latin America Brazilian pet-sitting marketplace DogHero raises $3.1 million Quero Education, an online college marketplace in Brazil, looks to educate U.S. investors Tech in Brazil is booming despite the country's political troubles Goldman Sachs leads $10M investment in Brazilian trucking startup CargoX Similar to the U.S. market, the opportunity for marketing tech is growing, while adtech’s prospects are still more challenging. As opposed to adtech’s focus on the automation and targeting of advertising across various media channels, a majority of marketing tech startups aim to develop and sell software, data analysis and online platforms — most frequently on a subscription basis (SaaS). Another emerging niche is a set of innovators focused on gathering more intelligence from IoT sensors and apps in physical locations such as retail stories, hotels, airports and other travel hubs and delivery of custom promotions, geo-location services (such as in-store navigation) and the optimization of more intelligent marketing offers to boost sales. Some of the marketing tech sector’s most promising innovators include: Hotmart: Sells a complete marketing platform to help start a digital business. Inloco Media: Develops an indoor geo-location platform without need for beacons. Resultados Digitais: Provides an inbound marketing SaaS to generate traffic and leads. Sharpening creativity and seeking new paths in times of crisis is part of human nature — our survival instinct. In macroeconomic scenarios such as what Brazil has faced in terms of high interest rates, rising inflation and unemployment, there’s an opportunity to innovate and reinvent old industries as new again. I firmly believe we have never had a period that’s so conducive to invest in online and technology startups, especially in the five tech sectors covered here. Successful innovators in these technology arenas will continue to contribute to the broader growth and economic vitality in Brazil. 0 SHARES Advertisement Advertisement CrunchBase Quero Education Founded 2016 Overview Quero Education helps Brazilian students compare their higher education options and apply. Students can find their ideal college program and save tuition in Quero Education's partner colleges. Location São José Dos Campos, 27 Categories Education, Higher Education, Marketplace, Universities Founders Bernarndo de Pádua Website http://quero.education/ Full profile for Quero Education Newsletters The Daily Crunch Our top headlines Delivered daily TC Week-in-Review Top stories of the week Delivered weekly CrunchBase Daily The latest startup funding announcements Delivered daily TC Europe The top European tech stories Delivered weekly TC Gadgets Top stories about gadgets Delivered weekly TC Mobile & Apps Top stories about apps Delivered weekly TC Startups Top stories about startups Delivered weekly TC Social Media Top stories about social Delivered weekly TC Asia The top Asian tech stories Delivered weekly Crunch Network The best from our contributors Delivered weekly View More Enter Address Subscribe Latest Crunch Report Uber self-driving cars begin working in Pittsburgh | Crunch Report Watch More Episodes HealthTech fintech edtech brazil Finance Popular Posts Featured Stories iPhone 7 and 7 Plus Review VIDEO | 3:56 | Reviews SpaceX’s Mars Colonial Transporter can go “well beyond” Mars yesterday | Darrell Etherington What do you call a tech unicorn that goes public? yesterday | Ravi Mhatre The race to be the all-in-one app yesterday | Navneet Singh, Sonny Singh Highlights from Disrupt SF 2016 yesterday | Anna Escher Latest From TechCrunch The government technology pitch 36 minutes ago | Luke Fretwell Facebook ads still slipping past Adblock Plus via stripped-down code 1 hour ago | Josh Constine Lyft’s ambitious future vision includes self-driving dominance by 2021 2 hours ago | Darrell Etherington Here are Apple’s new ads for the iPhone 7 and Apple Watch Series 2 3 hours ago | Romain Dillet Comment moderation powered by Up Next Catching Pokémon with the new Pokémon Go Plus Posted yesterday CrunchBoard Job Listings Business Systems Analyst at Liberty Construction Services, LLC (Braintree, MA, United States) Head of Operations @ Teforia at Teforia (San Francisco, CA, United States) Software Engineers. Are you fed up yet? at TE2, The Experience Engine (San Francisco, CA, United States) Senior Data Engineer at BCG Digital Ventures (Manhattan Beach, CA, United States) Senior Software Engineer, Backend at Location Labs (Emeryville, CA, United States) More from CrunchBoard Advertisement TechCrunch News Video Events CrunchBase TechCrunch Store About Staff Contact Us Advertise With Us Send Us A Tip International China Europe Japan Follow TechCrunch Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Youtube Pinterest Tumblr Instagram StumbleUpon Feed TechCrunch Apps iOS Android Windows 8 Subscribe to The Daily Crunch Latest headlines delivered to you daily Subscribe to <span class="no-mobile">Subscribe to </span>The Daily Crunch Enter Email Address Subscribe © 2013-2016 AOL Inc. All rights reserved. Aol Tech Privacy Policy About Our Ads Anti Harassment Policy Terms of Service Powered by WordPress.com VIP Fonts by News Startups Mobile Gadgets Enterprise Social Europe Asia Crunch Network Unicorn Leaderboard Gift Guides All Galleries All Timelines Videos Apps News Crunch Report Disrupt SF 2016 All Shows All Videos Events Disrupt Startup Battlefield Crunchies Meetups International City Events Hackathon Include NFL’s 1ST and Future TC Davos 2016 All Events CrunchBase Message Us Most Popular Catching Pokémon with the new Pokémon Go Plus yesterday by Darrell Etherington Lyft’s ambitious future vision includes self-driving dominance by 2021 2 hours ago by Darrell Etherington Here ar