Best ski resorts in Europe - Europe's Best Destinations Welcome to the official Europe's Best Destinations website Explore Europe Best destinations 2016 Christmas markets Ski Resorts Romantic destinations Hidden gems Best beaches Beautiful bridges Best National Parks Best Shopping Centers More inspiration Destinations Plan your stay Book your flight Compare low cost flights to Europe countries then book your airline tickets directly by clicking through to agency and airline sites. Find your hotel Compare all Europe hotel deals at once. Up to 80% off. View maps, photos and guest reviews. Our tool compare 1000+ travel sites. Tours & Activities Discover Europe’s biggest collection of things to do and guided tours. Whatever you want to do you’ll find it here. Best price guarantee ! Menu Trending searches : Best beaches Zadar Ski resorts Porto Hotels Christmas 2016 Amsterdam Romantic Milan Welcome to ... the Dordogne Valley in France... An ideal destination for nature lovers ! Discover Best Christmas markets 2016 Dive into our selection of the best Christmas markets in Europe. Discover Porto Travel Guide The colourful streets of Porto and the Portuguese sweetness of life are waiting for you ! Discover ❤ Join us on : Home Destinations Aachen Aberdeen Aix-en-Provence Aix-Les-Bains Alicante Algarve Amsterdam Antibes Antwerp Athens Arles Avignon Azores Barcelona Basel Belfast Belgrade Bergen Berlin Biarritz Bielefeld Bilbao Birmingham Bologna Bolzano Bonn Bordeaux Bratislava Bristol Brno Brussels Budapest Cadiz Cannes Cesis Colmar Cologne Copenhagen Cordoba Dijon Dordogne Valley Dublin Dresden Dubrovnik Duisburg Dusseldorf Edinburgh Florence Frankfurt Gdansk Geneva Gijon Glasgow Gothenburg Graz Hamburg Hannover Helsinki Innsbruck Inverness Istanbul Istria Kaunas Kotor Krakow Krk Lausanne Le Havre Leipzig Liepaja Lille Linz Lisbon Ljubljana Locarno London Lourdes Lucerne Luxembourg Madeira Madrid Malaga Malta Manchester Marseille Metz Miskolc Milan Montreux Montpellier Mont Saint-Michel Mullerthal Munich Nantes Nice Nicosia Novi Sad Nuremberg Opatija Oslo Oxford Palermo Palma de Mallorca Paris Pisa Plovdiv Porto Poznan Prague Reykjavik Riga Rijeka Rome Rotterdam Rouen Sainte Maxime Saint-Tropez Salzburg San Sebastian Sarejevo Sintra Sibenik Skopje Sorrento Split Stari Grad Stirling Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tampere The Hague Thessaloniki Toulouse Valencia Venice Ventspils Vilnius Vienna Vicenza Warsaw Wroclaw York Zadar Zagreb Best of Europe European Best Destinations 2016 Europe Best Destinations 2015 Best beaches in Europe 2015 2014 Best hidden gems in Europe Best summer music festivals Best Romantic Destinations in Europe Best destinations to celebrate new year's eve in Europe Best Christmas City Breaks in Europe Best wine destinations in Europe Best castles in Europe Best thermal destinations in Europe Most beautiful landscapes in Europe Best amusement parks in Europe Best celebrities destinations Best destinations for sales in Europe Portugal Quiz Europe Vs the world Beautiful piers in Europe Best events in Europe Best trendy events in Europe Best beach huts in Europe Best amazing events in Europe Best museums in Europe Best shopping centers in Europe Best Royal Family Palaces Best destinations to celebrate Chinese New Year in Europe Extreme points of Europe Best lighthouses in Europe Best Gay pride in Europe Most beautiful bridges in Europe Best greenhouses in Europe Best amazing monuments in Europe Best abandoned places in Europe Best city Parks in Europe Best flea markets in Europe Best funiculars in Europe Best Wellness Hotels in Europe Best national parks in Europe Seven Wonders of Europe Best subway stations in Europe Best railway stations in Europe Best hotel's suites in Europe Best gay friendly hotels in Europe Best pools in Europe Europe Best Destinations 2014 Europe Best Destinations 2013 Christmas markets European Best Christmas markets 2015 Best Christmas destinations in Europe Christmas in Germany Christmas in the United Kingdom Christmas in France Aachen Antwerp Avignon Baden-Baden Barcelona Basel Bath Berlin Bern Birmingham Braunschweig Brixen Brussels Budapest Colmar Cologne Dordrecht Dresden Dubrovnik Dusseldorf Ghent Glasgow Graz Hasselt Helsinki Innsbruck Leeds Leipzig Leuven Liege Lille London Lucerne Madrid Manchester Mulhouse Newcastle Nuremberg Odense Oxford Paris Prague Rothenburg Salzburg St Gallen Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tallinn Vienna Vilnius Worms Zagreb Europe's best Christmas markets 2014 Ski European Best Ski Resorts 2015 Europe's best ski resorts 2014 AlpedHuez Åre Baqueira Beret Courchevel Engadin Samnaun Gstaad Ischgl Kitzbühel La Plagne Les Arcs Saalbach-Hinterglemm Saint François Longchamp Saint-Gervais-Mont-Blanc Sölden Skiwelt Wilder Kaiser - Brixental Val Thorens Travel Guide Porto Things to do Mercado do Bolhao market Porto Ribeira and Miragaia World of Discoveries Porto Fondation Serralves Porto Electrico Porto old tram Torre dos Clerigos Tower Porto Se Catedral Porto Rua Santa Catarina Porto Funicular dos Guindais Porto Miradouro da Victoria Porto Miradouro da Serra do Pilar Teleferico de Gaia Cable Car Sao Bento Train Station Jardim do Palacio de Cristal Porto Parque da Cidade Porto Passeio dos Clerigos Porto Foz do Douro Porto Cais de Gaia Porto Belo Mercado Livraria Lello Bookshop Porto Miguel Bombarda, Porto's creators area A Vida Portuguesa Porto Cafe Majestic Porto Casa da Musica Porto Best beaches in Porto and Gaia Best bars and restaurants in Porto Six Bridges Cruise Porto Porto Helicopter tour Classico Porto Tour The Region Aveiro Braga Bom Jesus de Braga Sameiro Guimaraes Hotels Pousada Mosteiro de Guimaraes NHotel Collection Porto Batalha Grande Hotel do Porto The Yeatman Hotel Porto Porto InterContinental Hotel Pestana Palacio do Freixo Porto Flattered Porto Apartements Aparthotel Oporto Sol Porto Sense Apartments Flights Travel tips Gallery Bordeaux Top things to do in Bordeaux Hidden Bordeaux Bay of Arcachon Saint-Emilion Vineyards Plan your stay in Bordeaux Zagreb and Croatia Dolac market Cathedral Marijina Usnesenja Botanical Garden Archeological Museum Ilica Street Maksimir Park Ban Jelacic Square Zagreb's Funicular Green horseshoe Upper town old part of Zagreb Palace Hotel Jarun Lake Museum of broken relationships Lotrscak tower Kino Europa Cafe Museum of Contemporary Art Peter Preradovica's Square Kino Europa Shop Mirogoj Cemetery Avenue Mall Oktogon Gallery Hinterland Tkalciceva street Agava Restaurant Slejme Zadar's sunset Plitivice Lakes Boutique Hostel Forum Ugljan island City of Zadar Petcrane beach St Anastasia Bell Tower Nin Luka beach Tvrdava Sv. Mihovil Pula Arena City Centre Pula Park Plaza Histria Ribarska Koliba Restaurant Locanda Blu Restaurant Hotel Lone Rovinj Motovun Mulini Beach Discover Opatija Istanbul Ortaköy Mosque Alleyways of Ortaköy Bosphorus Five Stars Rumelian Castle Çengelköy İskelesi Sumahan on the Water Restaurant Tapasuma Maiden’s Tower Cruise over the Bosphorus Beylerbeyi Palace Grand Bazaar Blue Mosque Hagia Sophia Spice market Galata Bridge restaurants Street food Gulhane Park Topkapi Palace Galata Bridge Eyüp Eyüp Sultan Mosque Eyüp Market Cafe Pierre Loti Taksim Square Cafe francais Urban Suites Swissotel Bosphorus Kanyon shopping mall Barbaros Parki Istiklal Caddesi Perspectives on Istanbul Galata Tower Galata Tower Restaurant Çankaya Caddesi Princes Islands Abandoned building Panorama Buyukada Madeira Mercado dos Lavradores Funchal old town Cathedral of Funchal Cable car to Monte Blandy's wine lodge Venda Velha Madeira Tradicional Museu De Arte Contemporanea Boat trip in Santa Maria de Colombo Igreja do Colegio Faja dos Padres Faja dos Padres Hotel & restaurant Monte Palace Tropical Garden Igreja Da Nossa Senhora do Monte Camara de Lobos Restaurante do Forte Ristorante Villa Cipriani Il Gallo d’Oro Carros Cestos The Vine Hotel Reid's Palace Cabo Girao Pico do Ariero Belvedere Boca da Encumeada Sao Vicente Caves Seixal waterfall Santana houses Madeira Jeep Tour Madeira Theme Park Ribeiro Frio - Balcões Paul da Serra Porto Moniz Quinta do Furao Restaurant Quinta do Furao Hotel Miradouro da Portela Porto Santo Line Pico do Castelo Beaches of Porto Santo City center of Porto Santo Pier of Porto Santo Porto Santo Golf Porto Santo Hotel & Spa Porto Santo beach restaurant Hotels Flights About Contact Press Download Membership Skiing holidays in Europe The best ski resorts selected by travellers Best ski resorts in Europe 2016 Looking for the best destinations for your skiing holidays? If you are looking for cheap family ski resorts for amateur or the best ski resorts for professional skiers and with the best slopes in Europe, we have selected the best ski resorts in Europe. This ranking is yours because your votes have determinated the position of each of them.    For your skiing holidays in chalet, apartment, or hotel, check out our meta-search engine to compare more than 800,000 accommodations and find the best deals, the best prices are guaranteed.   We wish you a wonderful holiday on the beautiful mountains of Europe! ↳ Press kit & logos 1. Val Thorens    Val Thorens is the highest resort in Europe (at an altitude of 2,300 metres) and the highest point of the largest ski area in the world, the 3 Vallées (600 kilometres of interconnected runs).   It’s a New World resort that combines the best of skiing with the best of atmospheres so that each holidaymaker feels UNIQUE and enjoys their very own Val Tho experience! Reinventing enjoyment to give its guests the best possible holiday is Val Thorens’ credo. Val Thorens is a sporty, innovative, « ski in, ski out » car-free resort, built in pure mountain style.   Book your stay in val thorens 🏆 Congratulations to #ValThorens awarded best European ski resort 2014, 2015, 2016 ! pic.twitter.com/Dtp3MrUx9q — Best Destinations (@ebdestinations) 17 Février 2016 2. Alpe d'Huez   Alpe d’Huez is a true paradise for those who love snow and the great outdoors.   The Winter/Summer sports resort is well known for its very sunny climate. The village has been developing since 1936 and sits perched on a full south facing plateau at 1860m altitude in the Grandes Rousses mountain range.   The ski area called ‘Alpe d’Huez grand domaine Ski’ links up to the resort villages of Auris-en-Oisans, Huez, Ozen-Oisans, Vaujany, Villard-Reculas, La Garde and Le Freney. Its summit, the Pic Blanc is 3330 metres at its highest point and offers an exceptional panorama stretching over one fifth of French territory.   The resort is endowed with facilities that harmonize with the natural features of the resort to offer holiday makers a whole host of indoor/ outdoor, sports and cultural activities. Life style resort ‘par excellence’, Alpe d’Huez offers a wide range of opportunities for snow sports as well as plenty of other activities to try out.   Book your stay in Alpe d'huez 3. La Plagne   La Plagne is a family winter sports and summer resort located in the French Alps between 1250 and 3250 metres. For over 50 years, the destination has become internationally renowned for its huge ski area with 225 kilometres of runs for all levels of skier. The atmosphere and architecture are diverse and recount over 50 years of the history of winter sports!  Europe has 7 bobsleigh slopes, among them La Plagne has the unique French bobsleigh slopes.   Book your stay in La Plagne 4. St. François Longchamp   Nestled on the mountainside between 1450m and 1650m altitude, the resort of Saint François Longchamp welcomes you to an exceptional setting, protected between the Mont Blanc mountain range on the north and the Pic l'Etendard on the south.   Children, big or small, couples or tribes, everyone can find their place at Saint François Longchamp. Between four season sledge, dog sled riding, ski lessons for the toddlers (PiouPiou) or thrilling descents of the ski slopes in the "Snakegliss"(group sledging) at nightfall, or moments of relaxation in the Balneotherapy Centre for the parents.   The skiing area of Saint François Longchamp is linked to Valmorel, together these areas form the "Grand Domaine" a play park of more than 165km of ski slopes to suit all. At Saint François Longchamp and its surroundings you can explore or practice in peace Nordic skiing or snowshoeing.   Book your stay in St. F. Longchamp 5. Saint-Gervais Mont-Blanc   Over the past few years Saint-Gervais has undergone a facelift. The Belle Epoque architecture has regained its splendor and the village its original charm.   Dominated by the Mont-Blanc range, the Evasion Mont-Blanc ski area, the third largest in France, has been extended to the centre of the resort.   This winter Saint-Gervais revives the magic of the night, increasing its evening activities outdoors: skiing, ski touring, snowshoeing etc. A new dimension that procures a change of bearings, a feeling of heightened speed and the awakening of senses.   Book your stay in St. GERVAIS 6. Saalbach Hinterglemm   Welcome to the Skicircus Saalbach Hinterglemm Leogang Fieberbrunn - Austria’s largest ski resort: 270 piste kilometres and 70 modern lifts are waiting. Ski-In/Ski-Out on well groomed slopes and masses of powder fascinate skiers, snowboarders and offpiste fans. Perfectly shaped funparks attract freeskiers. Over 50 cosy mountain huts serve local specialities.   Book your stay in Saalbach 7. Kitzbühel   Kitzbühel, the most legendary sports destination in the Alps: this self-confident slogan stands for a town that effortlessly combines tradition with sophistication. The legendary Hahnenkamm, a long sporting tradition and pioneering ventures in Alpine golf and winter sports have all contributed to Kitzbühel's worldwide reputation.   Today Kitzbühel remains a place of contrasts, where rustic Tyrolean guesthouses rub shoulders with international designer boutiques. Visitors can experience Kitzbühel in many ways, from the alleyways in the medieval old town and the breathtaking pistes to the town's elegant hotels and scenic hiking trails.   Book your stay in Kitzbühel 8. Gstaad   The combination of the special experiences for which Gstaad is so famous is unrivalled. It cannot be found anywhere else and makes Gstaad the ‘last paradise in a crazy world’ (quote by actress Julie Andrews, a regular visitor to Gstaad). The prestige value of the brand Gstaad comes top of the list. The internationally renowned brandwhich is associated with luxury and high society creates a value that resonates far beyond the actual main target group.    Book your stay in Gstaad 9. Baqueira Beret   Baqueira Beret is a complete resort, divided in 3 areas: Beret, Baqueira, and Bonaigua with their respective characteristics, a network of modern installations and carefully maintained pistes, will satisfy all skiers. Beret is ideal for beginners and families. You’ll have easy access, by foot from the parking, to all amenities ( restaurants, cafeteria, school, etc..). Its pistes are very wide and of moderate inclination. Although, paradoxically, it is there that the permanent Stadium hosting competitions of high level is located.   bOOK YOUR STAY IN bAQUEIRA bERET 10. Åre Åre in Sweden is Northern Europe´s largest and most advanced and diverse alpine sport resort, with skiing and a wide variety of other sports and activities to suit every possible preference and level of skill. There is everything from awe-inspiring black pistes and highly challenging off-piste slopes to an abundance of easy skiing for children and beginners. Åre and adjacent Duved also offer world-class slopes for snowboarding, telemark and carving. Extreme adventures such as heli-skiing are also available. Book your stay in Åre   Plan your stay in Europe Hotels Flights Cars Ski Best of Europe Best Destinations 2016 Best ski resorts in Europe Best Christmas markets Best beaches in Europe Cheap hotel deals in Europe Cheap flights to Europe European Best Destinations About us Contact us Membership E-tourism Barometer Download Press Connect with us Subscribe to discover latest travel inspiration, tips and deals from European Best Destinations. Loading Explore Europe Best amusements parks Roller coaster, ghost train, big wheel... Most amazing monuments The strangest & most amazing monuments in Europe. Abandoned places The most amazing abandoned places in Europe. Most beautiful beaches A selection of the best beaches in Europe. Beautiful beach huts The most beautiful beach huts of the European coastline. The 15 best bridges Discover the most beautiful bridges in Europe. Best trendy events Take part to the most exclusive events in Europe. Best city parks Europe offers beautiful parks for your enjoyment. Most beautiful castles Visiting these castles is like diving into our history. Best events Discover our selection of the top events in Europe. Extreme points Beautiful destinations that will help you to better understand Europe. Summer music festivals Be prepared to live unique experiences ! Best flea markets Discover the most amazing flea markets in Europe. Best funiculars Top funiculars that bring you to the most beautiful places in Europe. Gay friendly places Be yourself in the best gay friendly destinations in Europe. Beautiful greenhouses Top greenhouses which are as beautiful as the plants they contain. Beautiful landscapes Travel far away while staying in Europe. Best hidden gems The finest unknown destinations in Europe. Beautiful lighthouses Discover a selection of the not to be missed lighthouses in Europe. Best museums Discover the most impressive museums in Europe. Best national parks Best national parks that are as green as beautiful ! New Year's Eve Discover the best destinations to celebrate New Year in Europe. Beautiful piers Discover the most beautiful piers in Europe. Romantic destinations Discover the best romantic destinations in Europe. Best Royal Palaces The top luxurious castles of the Royal Families. Best subway stations The most incredible subway stations in Europe. Best shopping centers Discover the “temples of shopping” in Europe ! Railway stations Take your ticket for the best railway stations ! Wine destinations Wine tells the whole story of a region. Best ski resorts The 10 best ski resorts in Europe selected by travellers. Best destinations 2016 The 15 best places to visit selected by travellers. Christmas destinations Best Christmas holiday destinations in Europe. Christmas Markets The best Christmas markets selected by travellers. Sales destinations You want to do shopping at the best prices ? Most beautiful pools The most amazing swimming pools in Europe. Wellness hotels Take care of yourself in the most beautiful Wellness hotels. Best hotel's suites The most luxurious and gorgeous hotel suites in Europe. Seven wonders So many treasures are waiting for you to discover them. Join Us On facebook twitter Google + pinterest instagram Discover Europe's best destinations Colmar Colmar is really a condensed version of the Alsace region. London You can't fail to be excited by London's amazing attractions. Berlin Berlin projects itself as a young, dynamic & cosmopolitan city. Azores Discover the charm of these nine charismatic islands. Rome A region with a great deal to offer: history, nature, good food... Prague Discover one of the most beautiful cities in the world! Algarve A place where the climate is mild & sunny all year round! Lisbon There are so many things to see and do in Lisbon! Madeira Islands Discover these enchanted islands… happiness is so near! Porto The colourful streets of Porto are waiting for you! Paris Paris is one of the world’s few really legendary capitals. Milan Milan is the hub of Italian culture, music, media & sports. Madrid The Spanish capital makes everyone feel right at home. Zagreb A large city which managed to stay romantic and safe. Zadar Welcome to Zadar European best destination 2016 ! Brussels Brussels, the capital of 500 million Europeans, is waiting for you. Bordeaux A fascinating town, rich in history, culture and gastronomy. Barcelona A perfect destination for culture, leisure, shopping, nightlife... Athens It is not only an open-air museum but also a contemporary metropolis. Amsterdam Discover five things you probably didn't know about the city. Stari Grad Stari Grad is located in the sunniest island in the Adriatic. Krk Island One of the most attractive tourist destinations in Croatia Metz Metz is the perfect sized town for a short break. San Sebastian San Sebastian is a wonderful city to get lost in and explore. Sainte-Maxime Sainte-Maxime is ideally located in the heart of the Saint-Tropez bay. Plovdiv Plovdiv is a leading cultural, religious, wine and shopping destination. Novi Sad Novi Sad, the city on the Danube, is the experience you must not miss. Nantes A vibrant & young metropolis often rewarded for its top-quality of life. Mullerthal Welcome in the Mullerthal Region – Luxembourg’s Little Switzerland. Montpellier Montpellier is an exceptional destination, rich in character. Miskolc There are numerous historical and cultural values hiding in the city. Le Havre Rewarded by the Unesco for its architecture and modernity. Kotor A cultural and natural world heritage site located in Montenegro. Aix-les-Bains A lovely destination nestles beside the largest natural lake in France. Best hidden gems The finest unknown destinations in Europe. Best national parks Best national parks that are as green as beautiful ! New Year's Eve Discover the best destinations to celebrate New Year in Europe. Romantic destinations Discover the best romantic destinations in Europe. Wine destinations Wine is a product like no other, it tells the whole story of a region. Best destinations 2016 The 15 best places to visit selected by travellers. Christmas destinations Best Christmas holiday destinations in Europe. Sales destinations You want to do shopping at the best prices ? Privacy Policy | Sitemap Log out | Edit   Home Destinations Aachen Aberdeen Aix-en-Provence Aix-Les-Bains Alicante Algarve Amsterdam Antibes Antwerp Athens Arles Avignon Azores Barcelona Basel Belfast Belgrade Bergen Berlin Biarritz Bielefeld Bilbao Birmingham Bologna Bolzano Bonn Bordeaux Bratislava Bristol Brno Brussels Budapest Cadiz Cannes Cesis Colmar Cologne Copenhagen Cordoba Dijon Dordogne Valley Dublin Dresden Dubrovnik Duisburg Dusseldorf Edinburgh Florence Frankfurt Gdansk Geneva Gijon Glasgow Gothenburg Graz Hamburg Hannover Helsinki Innsbruck Inverness Istanbul Istria Kaunas Kotor Krakow Krk Lausanne Le Havre Leipzig Liepaja Lille Linz Lisbon Ljubljana Locarno London Lourdes Lucerne Luxembourg Madeira Madrid Malaga Malta Manchester Marseille Metz Miskolc Milan Montreux Montpellier Mont Saint-Michel Mullerthal Munich Nantes Nice Nicosia Novi Sad Nuremberg Opatija Oslo Oxford Palermo Palma de Mallorca Paris Pisa Plovdiv Porto Poznan Prague Reykjavik Riga Rijeka Rome Rotterdam Rouen Sainte Maxime Saint-Tropez Salzburg San Sebastian Sarejevo Sintra Sibenik Skopje Sorrento Split Stari Grad Stirling Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tampere The Hague Thessaloniki Toulouse Valencia Venice Ventspils Vilnius Vienna Vicenza Warsaw Wroclaw York Zadar Zagreb Best of Europe European Best Destinations 2016 Europe Best Destinations 2015 Best beaches in Europe 2015 2014 Best hidden gems in Europe Best summer music festivals Best Romantic Destinations in Europe Best destinations to celebrate new year's eve in Europe Best Christmas City Breaks in Europe Best wine destinations in Europe Best castles in Europe Best thermal destinations in Europe Most beautiful landscapes in Europe Best amusement parks in Europe Best celebrities destinations Best destinations for sales in Europe Portugal Quiz Europe Vs the world Beautiful piers in Europe Best events in Europe Best trendy events in Europe Best beach huts in Europe Best amazing events in Europe Best museums in Europe Best shopping centers in Europe Best Royal Family Palaces Best destinations to celebrate Chinese New Year in Europe Extreme points of Europe Best lighthouses in Europe Best Gay pride in Europe Most beautiful bridges in Europe Best greenhouses in Europe Best amazing monuments in Europe Best abandoned places in Europe Best city Parks in Europe Best flea markets in Europe Best funiculars in Europe Best Wellness Hotels in Europe Best national parks in Europe Seven Wonders of Europe Best subway stations in Europe Best railway stations in Europe Best hotel's sui