Tourism in Gdansk, Poland - Europe's Best Destinations Welcome to the official Europe's Best Destinations website Explore Europe Best destinations 2016 Christmas markets Ski Resorts Romantic destinations Hidden gems Best beaches Beautiful bridges Best National Parks Best Shopping Centers More inspiration Destinations Plan your stay Book your flight Compare low cost flights to Europe countries then book your airline tickets directly by clicking through to agency and airline sites. Find your hotel Compare all Europe hotel deals at once. Up to 80% off. View maps, photos and guest reviews. Our tool compare 1000+ travel sites. Tours & Activities Discover Europe’s biggest collection of things to do and guided tours. Whatever you want to do you’ll find it here. Best price guarantee ! Menu Trending searches : Best beaches Zadar Ski resorts Porto Hotels Christmas 2016 Amsterdam Romantic Milan Welcome to ... the Dordogne Valley in France... An ideal destination for nature lovers ! Discover Best Christmas markets 2016 Dive into our selection of the best Christmas markets in Europe. Discover Porto Travel Guide The colourful streets of Porto and the Portuguese sweetness of life are waiting for you ! Discover ❤ Join us on : Home Destinations Aachen Aberdeen Aix-en-Provence Aix-Les-Bains Alicante Algarve Amsterdam Antibes Antwerp Athens Arles Avignon Azores Barcelona Basel Belfast Belgrade Bergen Berlin Biarritz Bielefeld Bilbao Birmingham Bologna Bolzano Bonn Bordeaux Bratislava Bristol Brno Brussels Budapest Cadiz Cannes Cesis Colmar Cologne Copenhagen Cordoba Dijon Dordogne Valley Dublin Dresden Dubrovnik Duisburg Dusseldorf Edinburgh Florence Frankfurt Gdansk Geneva Gijon Glasgow Gothenburg Graz Hamburg Hannover Helsinki Innsbruck Inverness Istanbul Istria Kaunas Kotor Krakow Krk Lausanne Le Havre Leipzig Liepaja Lille Linz Lisbon Ljubljana Locarno London Lourdes Lucerne Luxembourg Madeira Madrid Malaga Malta Manchester Marseille Metz Miskolc Milan Montreux Montpellier Mont Saint-Michel Mullerthal Munich Nantes Nice Nicosia Novi Sad Nuremberg Opatija Oslo Oxford Palermo Palma de Mallorca Paris Pisa Plovdiv Porto Poznan Prague Reykjavik Riga Rijeka Rome Rotterdam Rouen Sainte Maxime Saint-Tropez Salzburg San Sebastian Sarejevo Sintra Sibenik Skopje Sorrento Split Stari Grad Stirling Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tampere The Hague Thessaloniki Toulouse Valencia Venice Ventspils Vilnius Vienna Vicenza Warsaw Wroclaw York Zadar Zagreb Best of Europe European Best Destinations 2016 Europe Best Destinations 2015 Best beaches in Europe 2015 2014 Best hidden gems in Europe Best summer music festivals Best Romantic Destinations in Europe Best destinations to celebrate new year's eve in Europe Best Christmas City Breaks in Europe Best wine destinations in Europe Best castles in Europe Best thermal destinations in Europe Most beautiful landscapes in Europe Best amusement parks in Europe Best celebrities destinations Best destinations for sales in Europe Portugal Quiz Europe Vs the world Beautiful piers in Europe Best events in Europe Best trendy events in Europe Best beach huts in Europe Best amazing events in Europe Best museums in Europe Best shopping centers in Europe Best Royal Family Palaces Best destinations to celebrate Chinese New Year in Europe Extreme points of Europe Best lighthouses in Europe Best Gay pride in Europe Most beautiful bridges in Europe Best greenhouses in Europe Best amazing monuments in Europe Best abandoned places in Europe Best city Parks in Europe Best flea markets in Europe Best funiculars in Europe Best Wellness Hotels in Europe Best national parks in Europe Seven Wonders of Europe Best subway stations in Europe Best railway stations in Europe Best hotel's suites in Europe Best gay friendly hotels in Europe Best pools in Europe Europe Best Destinations 2014 Europe Best Destinations 2013 Christmas markets European Best Christmas markets 2015 Best Christmas destinations in Europe Christmas in Germany Christmas in the United Kingdom Christmas in France Aachen Antwerp Avignon Baden-Baden Barcelona Basel Bath Berlin Bern Birmingham Braunschweig Brixen Brussels Budapest Colmar Cologne Dordrecht Dresden Dubrovnik Dusseldorf Ghent Glasgow Graz Hasselt Helsinki Innsbruck Leeds Leipzig Leuven Liege Lille London Lucerne Madrid Manchester Mulhouse Newcastle Nuremberg Odense Oxford Paris Prague Rothenburg Salzburg St Gallen Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tallinn Vienna Vilnius Worms Zagreb Europe's best Christmas markets 2014 Ski European Best Ski Resorts 2015 Europe's best ski resorts 2014 AlpedHuez Åre Baqueira Beret Courchevel Engadin Samnaun Gstaad Ischgl Kitzbühel La Plagne Les Arcs Saalbach-Hinterglemm Saint François Longchamp Saint-Gervais-Mont-Blanc Sölden Skiwelt Wilder Kaiser - Brixental Val Thorens Travel Guide Porto Things to do Mercado do Bolhao market Porto Ribeira and Miragaia World of Discoveries Porto Fondation Serralves Porto Electrico Porto old tram Torre dos Clerigos Tower Porto Se Catedral Porto Rua Santa Catarina Porto Funicular dos Guindais Porto Miradouro da Victoria Porto Miradouro da Serra do Pilar Teleferico de Gaia Cable Car Sao Bento Train Station Jardim do Palacio de Cristal Porto Parque da Cidade Porto Passeio dos Clerigos Porto Foz do Douro Porto Cais de Gaia Porto Belo Mercado Livraria Lello Bookshop Porto Miguel Bombarda, Porto's creators area A Vida Portuguesa Porto Cafe Majestic Porto Casa da Musica Porto Best beaches in Porto and Gaia Best bars and restaurants in Porto Six Bridges Cruise Porto Porto Helicopter tour Classico Porto Tour The Region Aveiro Braga Bom Jesus de Braga Sameiro Guimaraes Hotels Pousada Mosteiro de Guimaraes NHotel Collection Porto Batalha Grande Hotel do Porto The Yeatman Hotel Porto Porto InterContinental Hotel Pestana Palacio do Freixo Porto Flattered Porto Apartements Aparthotel Oporto Sol Porto Sense Apartments Flights Travel tips Gallery Bordeaux Top things to do in Bordeaux Hidden Bordeaux Bay of Arcachon Saint-Emilion Vineyards Plan your stay in Bordeaux Zagreb and Croatia Dolac market Cathedral Marijina Usnesenja Botanical Garden Archeological Museum Ilica Street Maksimir Park Ban Jelacic Square Zagreb's Funicular Green horseshoe Upper town old part of Zagreb Palace Hotel Jarun Lake Museum of broken relationships Lotrscak tower Kino Europa Cafe Museum of Contemporary Art Peter Preradovica's Square Kino Europa Shop Mirogoj Cemetery Avenue Mall Oktogon Gallery Hinterland Tkalciceva street Agava Restaurant Slejme Zadar's sunset Plitivice Lakes Boutique Hostel Forum Ugljan island City of Zadar Petcrane beach St Anastasia Bell Tower Nin Luka beach Tvrdava Sv. Mihovil Pula Arena City Centre Pula Park Plaza Histria Ribarska Koliba Restaurant Locanda Blu Restaurant Hotel Lone Rovinj Motovun Mulini Beach Discover Opatija Istanbul Ortaköy Mosque Alleyways of Ortaköy Bosphorus Five Stars Rumelian Castle Çengelköy İskelesi Sumahan on the Water Restaurant Tapasuma Maiden’s Tower Cruise over the Bosphorus Beylerbeyi Palace Grand Bazaar Blue Mosque Hagia Sophia Spice market Galata Bridge restaurants Street food Gulhane Park Topkapi Palace Galata Bridge Eyüp Eyüp Sultan Mosque Eyüp Market Cafe Pierre Loti Taksim Square Cafe francais Urban Suites Swissotel Bosphorus Kanyon shopping mall Barbaros Parki Istiklal Caddesi Perspectives on Istanbul Galata Tower Galata Tower Restaurant Çankaya Caddesi Princes Islands Abandoned building Panorama Buyukada Madeira Mercado dos Lavradores Funchal old town Cathedral of Funchal Cable car to Monte Blandy's wine lodge Venda Velha Madeira Tradicional Museu De Arte Contemporanea Boat trip in Santa Maria de Colombo Igreja do Colegio Faja dos Padres Faja dos Padres Hotel & restaurant Monte Palace Tropical Garden Igreja Da Nossa Senhora do Monte Camara de Lobos Restaurante do Forte Ristorante Villa Cipriani Il Gallo d’Oro Carros Cestos The Vine Hotel Reid's Palace Cabo Girao Pico do Ariero Belvedere Boca da Encumeada Sao Vicente Caves Seixal waterfall Santana houses Madeira Jeep Tour Madeira Theme Park Ribeiro Frio - Balcões Paul da Serra Porto Moniz Quinta do Furao Restaurant Quinta do Furao Hotel Miradouro da Portela Porto Santo Line Pico do Castelo Beaches of Porto Santo City center of Porto Santo Pier of Porto Santo Porto Santo Golf Porto Santo Hotel & Spa Porto Santo beach restaurant Hotels Flights About Contact Press Download Membership Tourism in Gdansk Poland Hotels in Gdansk Get Driving Directions from: To: Calculate Print Directions Reset route There is no other place like Gdansk. Other cities can just resemble Gdansk. Its unique location and over a thousand years’ history shape Gdansk’s expressive and distinctive character and give it strong and implicit recognition among European cities. Nonetheless, the city holds an abundance of mysteries; it has got its own spirit which makes it impossible to mistake Gdansk for any other place.   There is no Gdansk without freedom. Courage, freshness, but first of all freedom; for centuries people of Gdansk have highly valued this virtue which in turn has shaped the city’s unique “genius loci”. Not only can one sense it among the Old Town’s patrician houses, but also amid the Young City’s shipyard cranes and on beautiful, sandy beaches as well as in post-industrial halls, in parks and tunnels. Freedom is ubiquitous in Gdansk, it is almost tangible, and it is the source of inspiration. It transforms space and people.   Contemporary Gdansk is a modern metropolis, a thriving centre of culture, science, sports and entertainment; it is also an attractive tourist destination and the world’s capital city of amber. It comes as no surprise that Gdansk, also famous for its breath-taking PGE Arena stadium was one of the host-cities of UEFA EURO.    Gdansk has become a focal point for debates on the present-day world. Gdansk stimulates art and fashion designers’ imagination, inspires artists and attracts most innovative economic trends. The city is also a robust conference venue – the new investments (Lech Walesa Airport, AmberExpo Exhibition and Convention Centre and newly opened hotels) act like a magnet for thousands of business tourists.   Since Gdansk is the city of cutting-edge technological innovations, conference and business meeting participants can make use of the GCBeVENT. The event application, one of Poland’s pioneering solutions is available free of charge. GCBeVENT is available for the 4 operating systems – iOS, Android, Windows Phone and Blackberry; not only does the application come handy in organisation of events ranging from conferences, thought trainings to city games, but also complements the event offer.   Gdansk, an intriguing and life-throbbing city has been recommended by the renowned British guidebook publisher – Dorling Kindersley Eyewitness Travel as one of the top ten must-see tourist hits in the world. The New York Times journalists have included Gdansk in their list of the world’s forty cities praised for being tourist-friendly.   We are looking forwards to seeing you in Gdansk Best hotels in Gdansk Midtown Hostel Gdansk from €50 Hanza Hotel Gdansk from €96 Hotel Podewils Gdansk from €141 Hilton Gdansk from €136 Marina Club Hotel Gdansk from €80 Hotel Mercure Stare Miasto from €75 More hoteLS Gdansk image gallery Tours & Activities in Gdansk more activities Top things to do in Gdansk Villa Patschke Going up the Wrzeszcz district, right at the Wedding Palace is an exclusive building - Patschke Villa. As the name suggests it was build by Rudolf Patschke, who at the beginning of the century was one of the wealthiest inhabitants of Gdańsk.   ©Malgorazata The Crane The oldest sources mentioning the Żuraw as wooden port crane equipment date from 1367. Its present look refers to the image of the middle of the 15th century. The first wooden crane totally burnt down as a result of the 1442 fire. A new crane was built in the years 1442-1444. The crane had a defence function.     ©Marc Szarkowski Artus Court Artus Court is a complex of buildings forming a branch of the Gdańsk History Museum, located within the Main City boundaries and forming a part of the representative city route called the Royal Route. Długi Targ located near the historical harbour on the Motława river forms part of the route. ©murray muraskin Vistula Mouth Fortress A unique monument of the fortification works, Wisłoujście Fortress, is located in direct proximity to the Westerplatte peninsula. This was an important area from a strategic point of view, as the movement of ships entering and leaving Gdańsk harbour could be controlled from this place.   ©Patrick Jakubowski St. Mary's Church The largest church in Gdańsk, and also in Poland, and the biggest brick church in the world, St. Mary’s Church is a special place not only due to its size, but due to the centuries of history which are enclosed inside it. St. Mary’s Church in Gdańsk, properly called the Basilica of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, is the finest historical building in Gdańsk.     ©BernieCB Destinations Gdansk Best of Europe Best Destinations 2016 Best ski resorts in Europe Best Christmas markets Best beaches in Europe Cheap hotel deals in Europe Cheap flights to Europe European Best Destinations About us Contact us Membership E-tourism Barometer Download Press Connect with us Subscribe to discover latest travel inspiration, tips and deals from European Best Destinations. Loading Explore Europe Best amusements parks Roller coaster, ghost train, big wheel... Most amazing monuments The strangest & most amazing monuments in Europe. Abandoned places The most amazing abandoned places in Europe. Most beautiful beaches A selection of the best beaches in Europe. Beautiful beach huts The most beautiful beach huts of the European coastline. The 15 best bridges Discover the most beautiful bridges in Europe. Best trendy events Take part to the most exclusive events in Europe. Best city parks Europe offers beautiful parks for your enjoyment. Most beautiful castles Visiting these castles is like diving into our history. Best events Discover our selection of the top events in Europe. Extreme points Beautiful destinations that will help you to better understand Europe. Summer music festivals Be prepared to live unique experiences ! Best flea markets Discover the most amazing flea markets in Europe. Best funiculars Top funiculars that bring you to the most beautiful places in Europe. Gay friendly places Be yourself in the best gay friendly destinations in Europe. Beautiful greenhouses Top greenhouses which are as beautiful as the plants they contain. Beautiful landscapes Travel far away while staying in Europe. Best hidden gems The finest unknown destinations in Europe. Beautiful lighthouses Discover a selection of the not to be missed lighthouses in Europe. Best museums Discover the most impressive museums in Europe. Best national parks Best national parks that are as green as beautiful ! New Year's Eve Discover the best destinations to celebrate New Year in Europe. Beautiful piers Discover the most beautiful piers in Europe. Romantic destinations Discover the best romantic destinations in Europe. Best Royal Palaces The top luxurious castles of the Royal Families. Best subway stations The most incredible subway stations in Europe. Best shopping centers Discover the “temples of shopping” in Europe ! Railway stations Take your ticket for the best railway stations ! Wine destinations Wine tells the whole story of a region. Best ski resorts The 10 best ski resorts in Europe selected by travellers. Best destinations 2016 The 15 best places to visit selected by travellers. Christmas destinations Best Christmas holiday destinations in Europe. Christmas Markets The best Christmas markets selected by travellers. Sales destinations You want to do shopping at the best prices ? Most beautiful pools The most amazing swimming pools in Europe. Wellness hotels Take care of yourself in the most beautiful Wellness hotels. Best hotel's suites The most luxurious and gorgeous hotel suites in Europe. Seven wonders So many treasures are waiting for you to discover them. Join Us On facebook twitter Google + pinterest instagram Discover Europe's best destinations Colmar Colmar is really a condensed version of the Alsace region. London You can't fail to be excited by London's amazing attractions. Berlin Berlin projects itself as a young, dynamic & cosmopolitan city. Azores Discover the charm of these nine charismatic islands. Rome A region with a great deal to offer: history, nature, good food... Prague Discover one of the most beautiful cities in the world! Algarve A place where the climate is mild & sunny all year round! Lisbon There are so many things to see and do in Lisbon! Madeira Islands Discover these enchanted islands… happiness is so near! Porto The colourful streets of Porto are waiting for you! Paris Paris is one of the world’s few really legendary capitals. Milan Milan is the hub of Italian culture, music, media & sports. Madrid The Spanish capital makes everyone feel right at home. Zagreb A large city which managed to stay romantic and safe. Zadar Welcome to Zadar European best destination 2016 ! Brussels Brussels, the capital of 500 million Europeans, is waiting for you. Bordeaux A fascinating town, rich in history, culture and gastronomy. Barcelona A perfect destination for culture, leisure, shopping, nightlife... Athens It is not only an open-air museum but also a contemporary metropolis. Amsterdam Discover five things you probably didn't know about the city. Stari Grad Stari Grad is located in the sunniest island in the Adriatic. Krk Island One of the most attractive tourist destinations in Croatia Metz Metz is the perfect sized town for a short break. San Sebastian San Sebastian is a wonderful city to get lost in and explore. Sainte-Maxime Sainte-Maxime is ideally located in the heart of the Saint-Tropez bay. Plovdiv Plovdiv is a leading cultural, religious, wine and shopping destination. Novi Sad Novi Sad, the city on the Danube, is the experience you must not miss. Nantes A vibrant & young metropolis often rewarded for its top-quality of life. Mullerthal Welcome in the Mullerthal Region – Luxembourg’s Little Switzerland. Montpellier Montpellier is an exceptional destination, rich in character. Miskolc There are numerous historical and cultural values hiding in the city. Le Havre Rewarded by the Unesco for its architecture and modernity. Kotor A cultural and natural world heritage site located in Montenegro. Aix-les-Bains A lovely destination nestles beside the largest natural lake in France. Best hidden gems The finest unknown destinations in Europe. Best national parks Best national parks that are as green as beautiful ! New Year's Eve Discover the best destinations to celebrate New Year in Europe. Romantic destinations Discover the best romantic destinations in Europe. Wine destinations Wine is a product like no other, it tells the whole story of a region. Best destinations 2016 The 15 best places to visit selected by travellers. Christmas destinations Best Christmas holiday destinations in Europe. Sales destinations You want to do shopping at the best prices ? Privacy Policy | Sitemap Log out | Edit   Home Destinations Aachen Aberdeen Aix-en-Provence Aix-Les-Bains Alicante Algarve Amsterdam Antibes Antwerp Athens Arles Avignon Azores Barcelona Basel Belfast Belgrade Bergen Berlin Biarritz Bielefeld Bilbao Birmingham Bologna Bolzano Bonn Bordeaux Bratislava Bristol Brno Brussels Budapest Cadiz Cannes Cesis Colmar Cologne Copenhagen Cordoba Dijon Dordogne Valley Dublin Dresden Dubrovnik Duisburg Dusseldorf Edinburgh Florence Frankfurt Gdansk Geneva Gijon Glasgow Gothenburg Graz Hamburg Hannover Helsinki Innsbruck Inverness Istanbul Istria Kaunas Kotor Krakow Krk Lausanne Le Havre Leipzig Liepaja Lille Linz Lisbon Ljubljana Locarno London Lourdes Lucerne Luxembourg Madeira Madrid Malaga Malta Manchester Marseille Metz Miskolc Milan Montreux Montpellier Mont Saint-Michel Mullerthal Munich Nantes Nice Nicosia Novi Sad Nuremberg Opatija Oslo Oxford Palermo Palma de Mallorca Paris Pisa Plovdiv Porto Poznan Prague Reykjavik Riga Rijeka Rome Rotterdam Rouen Sainte Maxime Saint-Tropez Salzburg San Sebastian Sarejevo Sintra Sibenik Skopje Sorrento Split Stari Grad Stirling Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tampere The Hague Thessaloniki Toulouse Valencia Venice Ventspils Vilnius Vienna Vicenza Warsaw Wroclaw York Zadar Zagreb Best of Europe European Best Destinations 2016 Europe Best Destinations 2015 Best beaches in Europe 2015 2014 Best hidden gems in Europe Best summer music festivals Best Romantic Destinations in Europe Best destinations to celebrate new year's eve in Europe Best Christmas City Breaks in Europe Best wine destinations in Europe Best castles in Europe Best thermal destinations in Europe Most beautiful landscapes in Europe Best amusement parks in Europe Best celebrities destinations Best destinations for sales in Europe Portugal Quiz Europe Vs the world Beautiful piers in Europe Best events in Europe Best trendy events in Europe Best beach huts in Europe Best amazing events in Europe Best museums in Europe Best shopping centers in Europe Best Royal Family Palaces Best destinations to celebrate Chinese New Year in Europe Extreme points of Europe Best lighthouses in Europe Best Gay pride in Europe Most beautiful bridges in Europe Best greenhouses in Europe Best amazing monuments in Europe Best abandoned places in Europe Best city Parks in Europe Best flea markets in Europe Best funiculars in Europe Best Wellness Hotels in Europe Best national parks in Europe Seven Wonders of Europe Best subway stations in Europe Best railway stations in Europe Best hotel's suites in Europe Best gay friendly hotels in Europe Best pools in Europe Europe Best Destinations 2014 Europe Best Destinations 2013 Christmas markets European Best Christmas markets 2015 Best Christmas destinations in Europe Christmas in Germany Christmas in the United Kingdom Christmas in France Aachen Antwerp Avignon Baden-Baden Barcelona Basel Bath Berlin Bern Birmingham Braunschweig Brixen Brussels Budapest Colmar Cologne Dordrecht Dresden Dubrovnik Dusseldorf Ghent Glasgow Graz Hasselt Helsinki Innsbruck Leeds Leipzig Leuven Liege Lille London Lucerne Madrid Manchester Mulhouse Newcastle Nuremberg Odense Oxford Paris Prague Rothenburg Salzburg St Gallen Stockholm Strasbourg Stuttgart Tallinn Vienna Vilnius Worms Zagreb Europe's best Christmas markets 2014 Ski European Best Ski Resorts 2015 Europe's best ski resorts 2014 AlpedHuez Åre Baqueira Beret Courchevel Engadin Samnaun Gstaad Ischgl Kitzbühel La Plagne Les Arcs Saalbach-Hinterglemm Saint François Longchamp Saint-Gervais-Mont-Blanc Sölden Skiwelt Wilder Kaiser - Brixental Val Thorens Travel Guide Porto Things to do Mercado do Bolhao market Porto Ribeira and Miragaia World of Discoveries Porto Fondation Serralves Porto Electrico Porto old tram Torre dos Clerigos Tower Porto Se Catedral Porto Rua Santa Catarina Porto Funicular dos Guindais Porto Miradouro da Victoria Porto Miradouro da Serra do Pilar Teleferico de Gaia Cable Car Sao Bento Train Station Jardim do Palacio de Cristal Porto Parque da Cidade Porto Passeio dos Clerigos Porto Foz do Douro Porto Cais de Gaia Porto Belo Mercado Livraria Lello Bookshop Porto Miguel Bombarda, Porto's creators area A Vida Portuguesa Porto Cafe Majestic Porto Casa da Musica Porto Best beaches in Porto and Gaia Best bars and restaurants in Porto Six Bridges Cruise Porto Porto Helicopter tour Classico Porto Tour The Region Aveiro Braga Bom Jesus de Braga Sameiro Guimaraes Hotels Pousada Mosteiro de Guimaraes NHotel Collection Porto Batalha Grande Hotel do Porto The Yeatman Hotel Porto Porto InterContinental Hotel Pestana Palacio do Freixo Porto Flattered Porto Apartements Aparthotel Oporto Sol Porto Sense Apartments Flights Travel tips Gallery Bordeaux Top things to do in Bordeaux Hidden Bordeaux Bay of Arcachon Saint-Emilion Vineyards Plan your stay in Bordeaux Zagreb and Croatia Dolac market Cathedral Marijina Usnesenja Botanical Garden Archeological Museum Ilica Street Maksimir Park Ban Jelacic Square Zagreb's Funicular Green horseshoe Upper town old part of Zagreb Palace Hotel Jarun Lake Museum of broken relationships Lotrscak tower Kino Europa Cafe Museum of Contemporary Art Peter Preradovica's Square Kino Europa Shop Mirogoj Cemetery Avenue Mall Oktogon Gallery Hinter