Top 10 Summer Destinations : TravelChannel.com Please click here if you are not redirected within a few seconds. Blog Newsletters Schedule Mobile Apps Shows Video Destinations Sweepstakes Featured Shows Secret Eats With Adam Richman Mon 10|9c Andrew Zimmern's Driven by Food Tues 9|8c Expedition Unknown Wed 9pm | 8c More Shows Bizarre Foods  Booze Traveler  Ghost Adventures  Mysteries  The Dead Files  Watch Full Episodes On Tonight Food Paradise International 8pm | 7c Big Time RV 9pm | 8c Big Time RV 9:30pm | 8:30c Extreme RVs 10pm | 9c Big Time RV 11pm | 10c   Featured Videos Hotel Tipping Etiquette 01:48 Tour South Africa 02:33 Aruba's Arikok National Park 04:30 Fish On in Aruba 05:08 Metal Sculptures of Mozambique 02:15 Dubai Debut 02:14 Watch Full Episodes Watch Travel Channel Live Get the Watch Travel Channel App Watch Travel Channel Originals Visit Us on YouTube   Top Destinations Arizona Venice Barcelona  Boston  Caribbean  Chicago  Costa Rica  Hawaii  Las Vegas  London  Los Angeles  Mexico  Miami  New Orleans  New York City  Paris  Puerto Rico  Rome  Washington, DC  Top Interests Arts and Culture  Beaches  Cruises  Water Parks  Family  Food and Drink  Holidays  Road Trips  Local Getaways  National Parks  Outdoors and Adventure  Romance and Honeymoons  Top Hotels  Travel Tips  Travel's Best  REGIONS Asia Pacific Caribbean Europe Middle East & Africa North America South & Central America   Enter Daily for a Chance to Win $10K for a Trip to Hawaii Natural Wonders of Hawaii 14 Photos Scenic Hawaii Hawaii's Untouched Paradise 21 Top-Searched Cities for Long Weekends 50 States of National Parks World's Coolest Roller Coasters   #LiveTravelChannel Main Destinations Beaches Family Food and Drink Top 10 Summer Destinations By Sara Gilliam Tags Summer Winter is for working hard, summer is for playing hard. From America’s white-sand beaches to Europe’s sizzling cities, Hilton’s 12 brands will be there to help you play your summer away. We pulled the 10 most-searched summer vacation spots, and 1 thing is clear: Visions of palm trees are dancing in your head when you’re clicking on the search bar. From the Bahamas to Dubai, with just 1 European city in between, here are the top 10 destinations for summer, according to your searches. 10. The Bahamas 2015 Hilton Hotels & Resorts While there is a risk of getting rained on during hurricane season, June generally sees mild weather, fewer crowds and significantly lower prices. While some resorts in the Out Islands close through November, New Providence and Paradise Island remain open year-round. Best for: Families looking for a taste of laid-back island living. 9. Miami Sylvain Sonnet/The Image Bank/Getty Images Also offseason in the summer, Miami continues to draw visitors, especially Europeans and South Americans escaping winter. To keep cool in the blazing heat, you need only take a dip in the Atlantic, Biscayne Bay … or an infinity pool. You’ll be able to spread out on South Beach, plus people-watching on Lincoln Road and Miami Beach’s epic nightlife will be as entertaining as ever. Best for: A spontaneous getaway to blow off a little steam on a boat or in the club. 8. Catalina Island, CA Matthew Micah Wright/Lonely Planet Images/Getty Images Angelenos looking for a respite from the smog and traffic are finding it on Catalina Island. Make the 22-mile trip by ferry or helicopter — the latter will set you back only about $110 — and you’ll find an island of paradoxes: campgrounds where wild buffalo roam (a herd was abandoned after a 1924 movie shoot) and the ritzy, Mediterranean-flavored city of Avalon. Best for: A day at the beach spent snorkeling, swimming, hiking or biking. 7. Mackinac Island, MI Tomprout/iStockphoto.com Mackinac Island, 20 minutes by boat from either the Upper or Lower Peninsula of Michigan, comes alive on summer weekends. Most of its roughly 4 square miles is designated parkland, ideal for hiking and cycling. Be sure to take in the beautiful architecture of its own painted ladies, Victorian cottages that date back to just after the Civil War. Best for: A taste of times gone by; cars were banned more than a 100 years ago, and horse-drawn carriages are still used to get around today. 6. Ocean City, MD Jerry Driendl/Photodisc/Getty Images This East Coast beach town is best known for its boardwalk, which boasts the requisite neon spray-painted T-shirts and old-school amusement rides. Grab your mallets and feast on hard-shelled crabs at Hooper’s crab house or drink in the sunset with a local craft brew in hand from Fager’s Island Restaurant & Bar’s large bayfront decks. Best for: A classic, albeit kitschy, stroll along the boardwalk and the taste of Thrasher’s vinegar and Old Bay french fries. 5. Amsterdam Sylvain Sonnet/Photolibrary/Getty Images At first, Amsterdam may seem out of place on this list, but summer is the ideal time to visit the city. The gray skies have lifted, festivals abound and events to enjoy include the Open Garden Days, when visitors can peek into the private gardens behind the beautiful houses that line the famous canals. Best for: An urban adventure, traversing Amsterdam’s thousands of bridges and waterways by bike and by boat in search of the perfect brown café. 4. Virginia Beach, VA Theojohns/iStockphoto.com Perhaps unsurprisingly, Virginia Beach is a prime summer destination beckoning tourists from up and down the mid-Atlantic with its 35 miles of sandy beaches. An extra-wide concrete boardwalk stretches 3 miles along the oceanfront and boasts benches for people- and sunset-watching, as well as a separate path for biking and blading. Best for: Families who flock to the revitalized oceanfront resort area and the Virginia Aquarium & Marine Science Center (not only on rainy days). 3. Bora Bora Hilton If you conjure up images of the perfect island paradise in your head, it probably looks like Bora Bora’s stilted bungalows jetting out into the turquoise lagoon. A volcanic atoll, Bora Bora is surrounded by a circular coral reef, which makes it ideal for snorkeling and scuba diving. Best for: Romance. It truly is a honeymooner’s dream or special-occasion getaway. 2. Dubai Markus Matzel/Ullstein Bild/Getty Images Don’t mind the triple-digit temps or humidity — you’re in Dubai, where you can ski (indoors) in the desert and shop at the world’s largest shopping mall. And if it’s shopping you want, don’t miss the Dubai Summer Surprises festival, where you can expect dramatic discounts, raffles and fireworks. Best for: Indulging your fantasies, whether that’s being on top of the world at the Burj Khalifa or checking in to a 7-star hotel. 1. Hawaii 7Michael/iStock/Getty Images You won’t need your passport to visit the No. 1 destination on the list, but you may feel as though you’re in another world thanks to Hawaii’s red- and black-sand beaches, lush sea cliffs, volcanic landscapes, abundant sea life and rich Polynesian culture. Best for: Everyone — seriously. Each of the 6 major islands offers unique experiences tailored for a luxury, romantic, adventurous, eco-friendly or beach vacation. Take our Hawaiian Island quiz to find out which one is right for you. The Hot List National Parks Explore America’s most stunning scenery. Travel Channel Social Join the conversation on Social Media! Read Our Blog Stay updated on the latest travel tips and trends. Sign up for our newsletter Learn about amazing travel experiences. Sign up for the Travel Channel newsletter. Sign Up Thanks for signing up. Check out more newsletters from Travel Channel. Sign Up No Thanks Follow Us Everywhere Join the party! Don't miss Travel Channel in your favorite social media feeds. Facebook Twitter Pinterest Instagram Next Up 3 Places to See Synchronous Fireflies Now More From Travel Sweepstakes Travel's Best Newsletters Stream Travel Channel Get Travel Channel: Provider Finder Travel Channel Family HGTV Step Inside HGTV Fall House 2016 Great American Country You Could Win $50,000! Top Junk Gypsy Makeovers Southern Wedding Recipes Food Network 50 After-School Snacks Ingredients the Chopped Judg